[[PAGE 1 LEFT]]
Omega 138 (202
Contents lists available
Omeg
journal homepage: www.els
Online joint optimization of order picking proc
(cid:73)
fulfillment systems
Guoshuai Jiao a,b , Min Huang a ,∗, Yang Song a , Haobi
a College of Information Science and Engineering, Northeastern University, Shenyang, Liaoning, 11
b College of Economy and Management, Taiyuan University of Science and Technology, Taiyuan,
c Department of Industrial Systems Engineering and Management, National University of Singapore
d College of Computer Science and Engineering, Northeastern University, Shenyang, Liaoning, 1101
A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T
Keywords: A robotic mobile fulfillment syst
Robotic mobile fulfillment systems system, encompassing numerou
Online joint optimization a prime example of a dynamic
MILP model order backlogs, robot statuses,
W
Dy
a
n
r
a
e
m
ho
i
u
c
s
s
e
ystem
focuses on the online decision-
and task allocation within RMF
of current decisions on future d
system model for RMFS is devel
is formulated to address this cri
approach, employing alternating
computational challenges assoc
approach outperforms a sequenti
for online joint optimization of o
proposed approach in optimizing
significant benefits in terms of in
1. Introduction
The exponential growth of e-commerce has led to an increased de-
mand for logistics, particularly in the business-to-consumer market [1,
2]. However, market characteristics, such as stringent delivery times,
extensive product assortments, and fluctuating workloads, present sig-
nificant challenges to the order-picking process [3]. The order-picking
process is regarded as the most time-intensive and costly operation
in conventional manual systems (commonly referred to as picker-to-
parts systems) [4], especially for companies managing numerous stock-
keeping units (SKUs) in large warehouses. For example, JD.com, a
leading e-commerce giant in China, oversees a vast inventory of over 5
million SKUs in its expansive warehouses.
The emergence of robotic mobile fulfillment system (RMFS) has
enhanced warehouses efficiency and diminished labor costs for online
retailers [5]. A notable example is the Kiva System used by Amazon.
(cid:73)
Area: Transportation and Logistics This manuscript was processed by Area Edi
∗ Correspondence to: Northeastern University (NEU), Shenyang, Liaoning, 11000
E-mail addresses: jiaoguoshuai123@163.com (G. Jiao), mhuang@mail.neu.edu
(H. Li), wangxw@mail.neu.edu.cn (X. Wang).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.omega.2025.103374
Received 15 December 2023; Accepted 27 May 2025
Available online 11 June 2025
0305-0483/© 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and

[[PAGE 1 RIGHT]]
8 (2026) 103374
ailable at ScienceDirect
mega
w.elsevier.com/locate/omega
process in robotic mobile
aobin Li c , Xingwei Wang d
ing, 110819, China
yuan, Shanxi, 030024, China
ngapore, 117576, Singapore
g, 110169, China
t system (RMFS) constitutes a highly intricate and interdependent decision-making
merous closely related and interacting decision challenges. Meanwhile, RMFS is
namic system in which various types of information, such as inventory levels,
uses, and pod locations, continuously change throughout operation. This study
ision-making process for joint optimization of order assignment, pod selection,
RMFS during the order-picking process. Additionally, it considers the influence
ture decisions to improve online decision-making efficiency. Initially, a dynamic
developed. Subsequently, a novel mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) model
his critical order-picking challenge effectively. Furthermore, a customized heuristic
nating decision-making and greedy selection techniques, is proposed to overcome
associated with larger-scale RMFS scenarios. In different scales, the proposed
quential approach commonly used in practice and a MILP model in existing literature
n of order assignment and pod selection. The findings highlight the efficacy of the
mizing the RMFS order-picking process, particularly for larger instances, delivering
s of increased throughput and reduced robot travel distances.
Similar to the automated storage and retrieval system, RMFS is also a
parts-to-picker system. Mobile robots are employed to transport pods
or racks containing inventory to fixed picking workstations. This ware-
house system eliminates the necessity for manual workers to navigate
through the warehouse to retrieve items, as robots bring the necessary
pods directly to the pickers. By automating transportation, the RMFS
optimizes the picking process, eliminates the overhead incurred from
the pickers’ traveling time, and enables simultaneous picking from
multiple workstations. This results in a significant increase in order ful-
fillment speed and accuracy while mitigating the labor costs associated
with manual walking and searching within large warehouses [5].
1.1. Decision-making problems and literature review
In their review on RMFS, Azadeh et al. [6] classified relevant
studies into three main areas: system analysis, design optimization, and
ea Editor M. Battarra.
110004, PR China.
u.edu.cn (M. Huang), songyang1@ise.neu.edu.cn (Y. Song), li_haobin@nus.edu.sg
xt and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

[[PAGE 2 LEFT]]
Fig. 1. Decision-making
operational planning and control. In contrast, Merschformann et al.
[7] and Xie et al. [8] categorized the decisions relevant to the RMFS
into decisions taken at the strategic, tactical, and operational levels.
This study adopts the latter classification approach. Several notable
studies, such as Azadeh et al. [6], Boysen et al. [3], Merschformann
et al. [7], Jaghbeer et al. [9], and da Costa Barros and Nascimento [10],
provide a comprehensive literature review.
The RMFS operation process primarily comprises two procedures:
the picking (retrieval or outbound) and replenishment (in short: repl.,
storage or inbound) processes. The picking process involves retrieving
SKUs from the pods to fulfill orders, whereas the replenishment process
involves putting SKUs into the pods to restock inventory. This study
primarily focuses on the picking process. Therefore, we analyze picking
as an illustrative example to discuss the operational level decision-
making process for RMFS, as shown in Fig. 1. First, the order must
be assigned to the workstation (order assignment (OA)), and, subse-
quently, the corresponding pod must be selected to fulfill the order
(pod selection (PS)). Decisions regarding OA and PS require generating
robot transportation tasks. The workstation determined by OA is the
task end point and the pod determined by PS is the task starting
point. The creation of these transportation tasks is followed by the
allocation of the tasks to the corresponding robots (task allocation
(TA)), necessitating the determination of the matching relationship
between tasks and robots. Next, the robot must determine the specific
traveling path (path planning (PP)) to use to execute its assigned task.
After the pod completes the picking process at the workstation and
returns to the storage zone, a parking location must be identified for the
pod (pod repositioning (PR)). In this study, we reviewed the literature
relevant to RMFS at the operational level (Table 1). Note that the
operational level decision-making process for replenishment is similar
to that of picking. For replenishment, the terms “ OA” and “ PS” in the
outline above would be substituted with “ ROA” and “ RPS”, where ROA
and RPS respectively represent replenishment order assignment and
replenishment pod selection.
RMFS is a complex and interdependent decision-making system,
with numerous closely interconnected decision problems. The optimal
solution for a single decision may not necessarily be the global optimal
solution for the entire system. Therefore, simultaneously optimizing
specific decisions in RMFS is crucial for enhancing warehouse opera-
tional efficiency [48], such as OA on the demand side and PS and TA
on the supply side. OA and PS aim to generate tasks for robots, whereas
TA aims to allocate the generated tasks to robots. The generation
and allocation of tasks are highly coupled and mutually influential.
Therefore, integrating these processes for decision-making, i.e., jointly
optimizing OA, PS, and TA, can effectively improve decision-making ef-
ficiency. RMFS is a typical dynamic system; inventory, backlog (i.e., all
2

[[PAGE 2 RIGHT]]
making process for RMFS.
unfulfilled orders), robot status, and pod location information changes
over time during operation. Estimating this information accurately in
advance constitutes a significant challenge owing to system interdepen-
dencies, hardware malfunctions, and operational delays. As highlighted
by Wurman et al. [5], everything within the Kiva warehouse occurs
in real time. Consequently, there is no time window during the op-
eration of an RMFS within which operational level decision-making
calculations can be made offline. Therefore, effective real time decision-
making is imperative to ensure a prompt response to current system
information and circumstances.
Current research on the joint optimization of OA, PS, and TA is
presented in Table 2. Evidently, most existing literature focuses on
offline and joint optimization of OA and PS. Zhang et al. [23] and
Teck and Dewil [25,26] jointly optimized OA, PS, and TA; however,
these contributions all represent offline optimization approaches. Ad-
ditionally, Xie et al. [8] and Jiao et al. [28] conducted online joint
optimization of OA and PS, whereas Qin et al. [22] conducted online
joint optimization of PS and TA. In summary, the literature is deficient
in examinations of online joint optimization of OA, PS, and TA. In
this study, OA, PS, and TA in RMFS are jointly optimized online,
while considering multiple workstations and inventory. Therefore, this
contribution aims to address this specific literature gap regarding the
requirements of real-world RMFS operational specifications.
1.2. Challenges and contributions
We address online decision-making of the joint optimization prob-
lem for OA, PS, and TA, which presents the following challenges:
• Complexity: the problem is intricate owing to the simultaneous
consideration of multiple decision variables and constraints as-
sociated with OA, PS, and TA. Specifically, it is necessary to
simultaneously determine a matching relationship among orders,
pods, workstations, and robots, that is, determine which robot
transports which pod to which workstation to fulfill which order.
• Large-scale: given the potential problem complexity, an efficient
computational approach is required to handle larger-scale in-
stances without detracting from the solution quality.
• Real-time: the optimization must be performed in real-time, re-
quiring efficient and swift decision-making to meet operational
requirements. Responding quickly to joint decisions in a dynamic
environment is a rather intricate challenge.
Addressing the aforementioned challenges is crucial to developing
an effective and practical solution for online joint optimization in
RMFS. The main contributions of this study are outlined below:
2

[[PAGE 3 LEFT]]
Table 1
Literature review for RMFS at the operational level.
Decision problem Publications
Repl. Lamballais e
Merschforma
OA and PS
Li et al. [16]
Pick Wurman et a
Jiang et al. [
Xie et al. [8]
Teck and De
Justkowiak a
Zhao et al. [
TA Zou et al. [3
Li et al. [38]
Zhang et al.
PP Merschforma
Sun et al. [4
PR Weidinger et
Yuan et al. [
Table 2
Summary of literature on the joint optimization for OA, PS, and TA.
Publications OA PS TA Online
Boysen et al. [19]
√ √
Xie et al. [8]
√ √ √
Yang et al. [20]
√ √
Valle and Beasley [21]
√ √
Qin et al. [22]
√ √ √
Teck and Dewil [25]
√ √ √
Teck and Dewil [26]
√ √ √
Zhang et al. [23]
√ √ √
Zhuang et al. [24]
√ √
Wang et al. [27]
√ √
Jiao et al. [28]
√ √ √
Justkowiak and Pesch [29]
√ √
Justkowiak and Pesch [30]
√ √
Zhao et al. [32]
√ √
Yang et al. [34]
√ √
This study
√ √ √ √
• To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to investigate
online joint optimization for OA, PS, and TA, which is hereafter
referred to as OJOOPT. Furthermore, online decision-making effi-
ciency is improved by considering the impact of current decisions
on future decisions.
• We establish a dynamic system model for RMFS and formulate a
novel mixed integer linear programming model (MILP) to address
OJOOPT.
• We develop a customized heuristic approach that employs alter-
nate decision-making and greedy selection (HADGS) strategies to
address large-scale instances with high efficiency.
• These inferences offer valuable managerial insights that chal-
lenge the conventional observations in the existing literature,
suggesting that reducing the number of pod movements does not
necessarily improve RMFS operational efficiency.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2
introduces a detailed problem formulation, encompassing the prob-
lem description, dynamic system modeling, and OJOOPT modeling.
Section 3 describes the designed HADGS and analyzes its complexity.
Section 4 presents the simulation-based numerical experiments as well
as managerial insights. Finally, Section 5 summarizes this study and
discusses potential future research directions.
2. Problem description and formulation
An RMFS may incorporate three types of workstations: those for re-
plenishment, picking, and packaging. To ensure clarity and conciseness,
we refer to the “ picking workstations” as “ workstations”, as the primary
focus of this study is decision-making during the picking process.
3

[[PAGE 3 RIGHT]]
ations
llais et al. [11] Xiang et al. [12], Weidinger and Boysen [13];
hformann et al. [7], Yuan et al. [14], Kim et al. [15];
l. [16], Jiang et al. [17] and Zhang et al. [18]
an et al. [5], Boysen et al. [19], Merschformann et al. [7];
et al. [17], Yang et al. [20], Valle and Beasley [21];
al. [8], Qin et al. [22], Zhang et al. [23], Zhuang et al. [24];
nd Dewil [25,26], Wang et al. [27], Jiao et al. [28];
wiak and Pesch [29,30], Subramanian and Chandrasekar [31];
t al. [32], Cheng et al. [33] and Yang et al. [34]
al. [35], Yoshitake et al. [36], Gharehgozli and Zaerpour [37];
l. [38], Qin et al. [22], Teck and Dewil [25,26];
et al. [23], Zhao et al. [32] and Li et al. [39]
hformann et al. [40], Lee et al. [41], Li et al. [42];
al. [43], Luo et al. [44] and Li et al. [39]
nger et al. [45], Roy et al. [46], Merschformann et al. [7];
et al. [14], Li et al. [16] and Zhuang et al. [47]
.
line Multiple workstations Inventory Approach
MILP, Heuristic
√
MILP, Heuristic
MILP, Heuristic
√ √
MILP, Heuristic
√ √
MILP, Heuristic
√
Heuristic
√
MILP
√ √
MINLP, Heuristic
√
MILP, Heuristic
√
MILP
√ √
MILP, Heuristic
Heuristic
MILP, Heuristic
√
MILP, Heuristic
√
MILP, Heuristic
√ √
MILP, Heuristic
2.1. Problem description
This study focuses on the OJOOPT in RMFS. During the operation
of an RMFS, dynamic changes occur over time in many parameters
such as backlog, inventory, robot status, and pod locations. Further-
more, the operation of an RMFS involves continuous human interaction
(i.e., picking operations by pickers at workstations); human response
time is variable and unpredictable. The consequent variability and
unpredictability introduced into the system, along with dynamic system
information changes necessitate real-time online decision-making for
operational level related issues. Thus, the system gathers real-time
information periodically in the course of its operation to make OJOOPT
decisions. We introduce the variable “𝑡” to represent the number of
times OJOOPT is performed. Therefore, real-time system information
is used as OJOOPT input at each new 𝑡.
In an RMFS, an order is typically placed in a tote at the workstation.
Once all the items in the order are placed in the tote, it means that the
tote is filled and subsequently transported to the packaging workstation
either via a conveyor belt or by workers. Simultaneously, an empty
tote is positioned in the original location. The OJOOPT decision-making
process is depicted in Fig. 2. Each time 𝑡 is updated, it is essential to
choose multiple orders from the backlog and allocate them to their
respective workstations. Subsequently, the process involves selecting
appropriate pods from the available pods to fulfill assigned orders,
while simultaneously selecting suitable robots from a set of available
robots to transport the selected pods. The number of orders assigned
in a single decision should not exceed the total available capacity of
all workstations. Two scenarios exist: when the number of available
robots is no less than the number of selected pods, this decision assigns
3

[[PAGE 4 LEFT]]
Fig. 2. OJOOPT decisio
orders equivalent to the total available capacity of all workstations.
In contrast, when the quantity of available robots is less than the
number of selected pods, this decision assigns fewer orders than the
total available capacity of all workstations. The workstation’s available
capacity is determined by the number of empty totes present before the
decision-making process. The more empty totes there are, the higher
the available capacity of the workstation. We introduce a threshold
value, denoted as 𝛿. Whenever a workstation’s available capacity ex-
ceeds or equals 𝛿, a new OJOOPT decision is triggered, increasing the
value of 𝑡 by 1. Therefore, we divide continuous time into a series
of discrete time points by defining the OJOOPT decision as a discrete
event. Specifically, for each 𝑡, we take the state of the dynamic system
at the current moment as the OJOOPT input and pass the decision result
to the system as the output.
Note that the pod set comprises both previously assigned pods at
workstations and unassigned pods in storage zones. The former includes
en-route transportation and picking up or queuing at workstations. The
pods that are assigned to a workstation in the current decision can
continue to be involved in future decisions as already assigned pods,
as long as they do not leave the workstation. Consequently, decisions
that were made online can significantly impact future decisions.
Additionally, the quantity of orders assigned to each workstation
in each OJOOPT decision does not exceed its total available capacity.
This implies that the quantity of orders being processed at any given
time is less than or equal to the maximum processing capability of the
workstation. Therefore, the necessity to sort either order sequence or
pod sequence is negated. The sequence in which the pods arrive at
the workstation is solely determined by their actual arrival sequence.
However, in offline decision-making, the quantity of orders assigned
at once frequently exceeds the processing capacity of a single work-
station; therefore, order and pod sequences must be sorted. Online
decision-making enables better adaptation to dynamic environmen-
tal changes, saves significant computational resources, and improves
system response time.
2.2. Dynamic system modeling
We utilize RAWSim-O, a discrete-event-driven and agent-based sim-
ulation framework created by Merschformann et al. [49], to simulate
a dynamic RMFS environment. By employing RAWSim-O, we create
a virtual environment that simulates the dynamics and conditions of
a real RMFS. This framework enables us to realistically model and
simulate various system components such as orders, pods, robots, and
their interactions. With RAWSim-O, we can analyze the performance
4

[[PAGE 4 RIGHT]]
decision-making process.
of different approaches, heuristics, or decision-making rules in a sim-
ulated RMFS environment. In other words, the relevant optimization
approaches are independent of RAWSim-O. RAWSim-O enables the
assessment of the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed ap-
proaches to address the challenges and complexities of real-world RMFS
scenarios. Overall, by utilizing RAWSim-O, comprehensive simulations
and experiments can be conducted to provide valuable insights and
guidance for optimizing RMFS decision-making processes. However, in
RAWSim-O, relevant decision-making issues are optimized individually;
the joint optimization approach cannot be directly applied. Therefore,
to evaluate the effectiveness of the joint optimization approach, this
study expands RAWSim-O, modifies its decision-making process accord-
ingly, and uses the newly developed approach to solve OJOOPT. We
name the expanded RAWSim-O “ EE-RAWSim-O”.
Notably, the agents in EE-RAWSim-O can be classified into two
categories: one involves real entities, such as robots and workstations;
the other comprises virtual entities, such as managers and solvers.
All agent updates in EE-RAWSim-O are driven by discrete events.
Furthermore, we utilize event graphs to depict EE-RAWSim-O mod-
eling. Event graphs, which represent discrete event systems clearly
and concisely, are graphical models. An event graph comprises event
nodes connected by directed edges, which depict the cause-and-effect
relationships between events. Each event node represents a specific
occurrence or activity in the system, such as order arrival, task com-
pletion, or resource availability. These events are typically represented
as labeled nodes in the graph. The directed edges between event nodes
indicate the flow of events and the order in which they occur. For
instance, an event may trigger another event to occur later, resulting
in a directed edge from the initial event node to the subsequent node.
Event graphs enable the visual analysis of the behavior and interactions
of events in a discrete event system. The relevant parameters, events,
and operators utilized in the event graph are defined in Table 3. In
addition to the events defined in Table 3, such as FI, SE, FE, SP, FP, and
QA, events in the event graph also include the decision events defined
in Section 1, such as OJOOPT, PP, and PR. Additionally, an extraction
request represents removing an SKU from the pod, that is, the picking of
a single item of an order. Similarly, an insertion request means putting
an SKU into the pod.
The EE-RAWSim-O event graph is shown in Fig. 3, where rectangles
represent initial events, ellipses represent events other than initial
events, black fonts in curly brackets represent changes in related state
variables after events are triggered, and red fonts in small brackets
represent trigger conditions between events. For example, when (𝑐 ≥
𝑤
𝛿) is true, that is, when the available capacity of workstation 𝑤 is
greater than or equal to the threshold 𝛿, the OJOOPT event will
4

[[PAGE 5 LEFT]]
Table 3
Some notations involved in the event graph.
Notation Definition
SI Picker starts executing an insertion request on
the repl. workstation.
SE Picker starts executing an extraction request on
the picking workstation.
FI Picker has finished an insertion request.
FE Picker has finished an extraction request.
PO Generate picking orders.
RO Generate repl. orders.
SP Robot starts its movement along the
Events
pre-planned path.
SM Robot starts its movement within the queuing
zone.
FP Robot finishes its movement along the
pre-planned path.
FM Robot finishes its movement within the
queuing zone.
QA Robot has reached the queuing zone of the
workstation.
RTA Task allocation in the replenishment process.
𝑤 Index of workstations.
𝑝 Index of pods.
𝑟 Index of robots.
𝑊 Set of workstations.
𝑊 𝑎 Set of available workstations at this time,
𝑊 𝑎 ⊆ 𝑊 .
𝑃 Set of pods.
𝑄 Set of transportation tasks.
𝑅 Set of robots.
𝑂 Set of orders currently in backlog.
𝑄𝑧 Set of robots in the queuing zone.
𝑂𝑟 Set of repl. orders.
𝑃 𝑤 Set of pods previously assigned to workstation
𝑤 does not include those that have departed
from 𝑤 at the current decision, 𝑃 𝑤 ⊆ 𝑃.
𝑐 𝑤 Current available capacity of workstation 𝑤.
𝑢 Maximum capacity of picking workstation.
𝑏 Order quantity in 𝑂 during initialization.
Parameters
ℎ𝑐 State of robot 𝑟: 0 represents idle and 1
𝑟
represents busy.
ℎ𝑑 The type of task being executed by robot 𝑟: 0
𝑟
represents picking task, 1 represents
replenishment task, 2 represents repositioning
task, 3 represents rest task, and 4 represents
dummy task that does nothing.
𝐸𝑏 Set of requests for inserting into pod 𝑝.
𝑝
𝐸𝑎 Set of requests of extraction for pod 𝑝.
𝑝
𝑡 Duration required for the robot to complete a
1
pre-planned route.
𝑡 Duration required for the robot to complete a
2
movement in the queuing zone.
𝑡 Duration required for the picker to complete an
3
insert request.
𝑡 Duration required for the picker to complete an
4
extraction request.
𝛾 Inventory level of the warehouse.
𝑟𝑜 Inventory level when repl. order generation
1
begins.
𝑟𝑜 Inventory level when repl. order generation is
2
stopped.
𝜌 A workstation, pod, or robot serve as input,
while output correspond to their respective
current position.
– An decrease in parameter values or quantity of
Operators elements in the set.
+ An increase in parameter values or quantity of
elements in the set.
∗ Changes in parameter values or quantity of
elements in the set, which may increase or
decrease.
5

[[PAGE 5 RIGHT]]
be triggered, which will cause the parameters in the {𝑐 −, 𝑂−, 𝑃 +,
𝑤 𝑤
𝑄∗, 𝐸𝑎+, ℎ𝑐 = 1, ℎ𝑑 = 0} to change. Furthermore, changes in parameters
𝑝 𝑟 𝑟
such as 𝑐 , 𝑂, 𝑃 , 𝑄, 𝐸𝑎, ℎ𝑐, and ℎ𝑑 can trigger other events in the event
𝑤 𝑤 𝑝 𝑟 𝑟
graph, enabling the entire dynamic system to operate continuously.
It should be noted that in Fig. 3, there is no one-to-one correspon-
dence between FE and 𝑐 . Specifically, each FE triggers a decrease in 𝛾
𝑤
and 𝐸𝑎 in {𝑐 +, 𝛾−, 𝐸𝑎−}, however, this does not necessarily trigger an
𝑝 𝑤 𝑝
increase in 𝑐 . When there are still items in an order that have not yet
𝑤
been picked, FE will not trigger 𝑐 to increase. In this case, multiple
𝑤
FE work together to complete the picking of an order, because SE and
FE form a circular structure together. The 𝑐 increase is only triggered
𝑤
when all items in an order have been picked. Moreover, items in an
order may be stored in multiple different pods. Therefore, when the 𝐸𝑎
𝑝
of a pod is 0, only PR will be triggered, and an increase in 𝑐 will not
𝑤
necessarily occur.
Fig. 3 illustrates that EE-RAWSim-O is a sophisticated discrete event
system, in which the occurrence of an event leads to changes in certain
parameters, thereby triggering subsequent events. Note that OJOOPT
solely encompasses task allocation in the picking process, while task
allocation for the replenishment process must still be executed through
TA. Therefore, RTA refers to the task allocation in the replenishment
process.
2.3. OJOOPT modeling
First, the assumptions and notations underlying OJOOPT are out-
lined in Section 2.3.1. We then introduce the OJOOPT optimization
objectives in Section 2.3.2. Subsequently, relevant OJOOPT constraints
are detailed in Section 2.3.3. Finally, a complete MILP model of
OJOOPT is presented in Section 2.3.4.
2.3.1. Assumptions and notations
The relevant OJOOPT assumptions are as follows:
Order All items in orders can be obtained in pods; thus, the ware-
house’s inventory can fulfill all orders. The generation of order lines
and items in each order follows a normal distribution, as detailed in
Appendix A.
Backlog All unfulfilled orders are in the current backlog. This study
assumes that the backlog is constant, meaning that the backlog size
remains unchanged during system operation. However, the proposed
model and approach can also accommodate varying backlogs. When an
order is assigned from the backlog, as shown in Fig. 2, an equivalent
quantity of orders is added to maintain a consistent backlog size at each
OJOOPT decision.
Workstation The capacity of the workstation denotes the upper
limit of orders that can be processed concurrently. Typically, a work-
station can process 6 to 12 orders simultaneously [8,28]. Furthermore,
the time required for the picker to pick one unit of each SKU in the
workstation is constant.
Pod Each pod has a predetermined capacity; thus, the quantity
of SKUs that can be accommodated in each pod has a finite limit.
This study adopts a shared storage policy [13], i.e., one SKU type can
be accommodated in multiple pods and multiple SKU types can be
accommodated in one pod. Moreover, to avoid the influence of the
relative workstation position and pod delays in the queuing zone on
the performance valuation of the approach, we assume that only one
pod can be assigned to one workstation.
Queuing zone Each workstation corresponds to a queuing zone. As
long as the workstation has one pod in the process of picking, the
remaining pods arriving at the workstation must wait in the queuing
zone. Note that the movement of pods in the queuing zone is not
managed by the PP (i.e., path plan), albeit by a dedicated queue
manager.
Table 3 provides descriptions of some notations utilized in OJOOPT,
while the remaining notations are presented in Table 4. We further
explain the definitions of 𝑥 and 𝑥̂ . 𝑥 indicates that 𝑜 is assigned
𝑜,𝑤 𝑜,𝑤 𝑜,𝑤
5

[[PAGE 6 LEFT]]
Fig. 3. EE-RAWSim-
to 𝑤 in the current decision, whereas 𝑥̂ indicates that 𝑜 could
𝑜,𝑤
potentially be assigned to 𝑤 in the current decision, although that may
not necessarily be the case. As pods assigned to workstation 𝑤 can fulfill
more orders than required, the number of orders that can be assigned
can exceed the actual number of orders assigned.
As previously stated, OJOOPT utilizes real-time system information
as the input for each decision-making process. Hence, certain parame-
ters in the model vary with each 𝑡. To distinguish these parameters cor-
responding to different 𝑡, we append the notation (𝑡) to them. The state
variable 𝐷 of the dynamic system can be mathematically formulated as
𝐷(𝑡) = ⟨𝑅𝑎(𝑡), 𝑅𝑏(𝑡), 𝑊 𝑎(𝑡), 𝑂(𝑡), 𝑃 𝑎(𝑡), 𝑃 𝑏(𝑡), 𝑃
𝑤
(𝑡), 𝑃̃
𝑖
(𝑡), 𝑂̃
𝑖
(𝑡), 𝑂̂(𝑡), 𝑛̂
𝑖,𝑝
(𝑡),
𝑐
𝑤
(𝑡), 𝐼
𝑝
(𝑡)⟩.
2.3.2. Optimization objective
We design a new optimization objective for OJOOPT. Most studies
on joint optimization for OA and PS minimize the quantity of pod
movements, which corresponds to reducing pod visits to workstations
[8,19–21,24,27,29,30]. Furthermore, typically, the optimization objec-
tive in joint optimization for OA, PS, and TA is to minimize the overall
system cost during operation [23,25,26]. This includes both the trans-
portation cost incurred by robots and the cost associated with picking
operations. The aforementioned studies on joint optimization for OA,
PS, and TA primarily address offline optimization, which calculates
the overall system cost to fulfill all orders in the backlog. However,
in OJOOPT, a significant amount of important information changes
dynamically over time, and only part of the orders in the backlog are
assigned in each decision. Therefore, it is impossible to calculate the
overall cost or total quantity of pod movements required by the system
to fulfill all orders in the backlog in a single decision. Therefore, the
new OJOOPT optimization objective is divided into two parts: long-
and short-term.
Specifically, we consider maximizing the quantity of orders in the
backlog that can be fulfilled on the chosen pods as a long-term ob-
jective. This involves selecting the pods with the highest capacity for
order fulfillment at the time of decision-making. The selected pods in
the current decision fulfill more orders in the backlog, resulting in
fewer pods being chosen for future decisions to minimize the total
pod movement required during long-term operation. Furthermore, we
consider minimizing the robot traveling distance required to fulfill
the orders assigned by the current decision as a short-term objective,
i.e., selecting the pod and robot with the shortest robot travel distance.
6

[[PAGE 6 RIGHT]]
WSim-O event graph.
Table 4
Some notations in OJOOPT.
Notation Definition
𝑖 Index of SKU.
Indices 𝑜 Index of order.
𝑝𝑟 Index of pod transported by robot 𝑟.
𝑃𝑎 Set of unallocated pods still in storage
zones, 𝑃𝑎 ⊆ 𝑃.
𝑃𝑏 Set of previously allocated pods that
have not completed the extraction task,
∑ 𝑤∈𝑊 𝑃 𝑤 = 𝑃𝑏 and 𝑃𝑏 ⊆ 𝑃.
𝐼 Set of SKU types within the warehouse.
𝐼 𝑝 Set of SKUs accommodated in pod 𝑝,
𝐼
𝑝
⊆ 𝐼.
𝐼 𝑜 Set of SKUs contained in order 𝑜, 𝐼 𝑜 ⊆ 𝐼.
𝑂̃ 𝑖 Set of orders containing SKU i, 𝑂̃ 𝑖 ⊆ 𝑂.
Parameters 𝑃̃ 𝑖 S 𝑃̃ e 𝑖 t ⊆ o 𝑃 f . pods that accommodate SKU i,
𝑅𝑎 Set of idle robots, 𝑅𝑎 ⊆ 𝑅.
𝑅𝑏 Set of busy robots, 𝑅𝑏 ⊆ 𝑅.
𝑛̂ 𝑖,𝑝 Quantity of SKU i accommodated in pod
𝑝.
𝑛 𝑖,𝑜 Quantity of SKU 𝑖 contained in order 𝑜.
𝜏 Threshold for residence time of order.
𝑔
𝑂̂
𝑜 R
Se
e
t
s i
o
d
f
e n
o
c
r
e
d e
t
r
i
s
m
t
e
h a
o
t
f
e
o
x
r
c
d
e
e
e
r
d
𝑜
t
i
h
n
e
𝑂
ti
.
me
threshold, 𝑂̂ ⊆ 𝑂.
𝑑 𝑝,𝑤 , 𝑑 𝑟,𝑝 Distance between pod 𝑝 and workstation
𝑤 and between the current position of
robot 𝑟 and pod 𝑝.
𝑥 𝑜,𝑤 Binary variable: 1, if order 𝑜 is assigned
to workstation 𝑤.
𝑥̂ 𝑜,𝑤 B
as
i
s
n
i
a
g
r
n
y
e d
v a
t
r
o
ia
w
bl
o
e
r
:
k
1
st
,
a
i
t
f
i o
o
n
r d
𝑤
er
.
𝑜 can be
𝑦 𝑟,𝑝 Binary variable: 1, if robot 𝑟 is allocated
to pod 𝑝.
Variables 𝑧 𝑝,𝑤 Binary variable: 1, if pod 𝑝 is allocated
to workstation 𝑤.
𝛿 𝑜,𝑝,𝑤 B
as
i
s
n
i
a
g
r
n
y
e d
v a
o
r
r
ia
d
b
e
l
r
e :
𝑜
1
a
,
r e
if
s
s
u
o
p
m
p
e
li e
S
d
K U
by
s i
p
n
o d
th
𝑝
e
assigned to workstation 𝑤.
𝑢 𝑤 Integer variable: unused capacity of
workstation 𝑤.
6

[[PAGE 7 LEFT]]
The robot traveling distance comprises two components: pick-up trip
(from robot to pod position) and forward trip (from pod to workstation
position). Therefore, the robot traveling distance is determined by both
the selected pod and robot. The shorter the robot travel distance in
a single decision, the less likely they are to travel a lengthy total
distance over multiple decisions. For example, in a certain decision,
we choose between selecting a pod that is close but fulfills fewer
orders or selecting a pod that is far but fulfills more orders. Therefore,
short-term objectives focus more on the current decision, while long-
term objectives focus on the effect of the current decision on future
decisions. Therefore, we must balance the impact of long- and short-
term objectives on the system. The OJOOPT optimization objective is
expressed as follows:
min 𝛼 × 𝑓 (𝑡) + 𝛼 × 𝑓 (𝑡) (1)
1 1 2 2
where 𝑓 and 𝑓 represent long- and short-term objectives, respectively,
1 2
and 𝛼 and 𝛼 represent the weights of 𝑓 and 𝑓 . The impact of long-
1 2 1 2
and short-term objectives on the system can be balanced by adjusting
the size of 𝛼 and 𝛼 , thereby maximizing system operational efficiency.
1 2
The newly designed optimization objective guides the current de-
cision through a short-term objective and ensures that the current
decision in OJOOPT has a positive influence on subsequent decisions
through a long-term objective, although such influence cannot be ac-
curately quantified.
2.3.3. Constraints
In OJOOPT, there are several constraints that must be satisfied.
These constraints can be divided into four categories, as follows:
(1) Constraints between orders and workstations
∑
𝑥̂ ≤ 1, ∀𝑜 ∈ 𝑂(𝑡) (2)
𝑜,𝑤
𝑤∈𝑊 𝑎(𝑡)
𝑥 ≤ 𝑥̂ , ∀𝑜 ∈ 𝑂(𝑡), 𝑤 ∈ 𝑊 𝑎(𝑡) (3)
𝑜,𝑤 𝑜,𝑤
∑
𝑥 = 𝑐 (𝑡) − 𝑢 , ∀𝑤 ∈ 𝑊 𝑎(𝑡) (4)
𝑜,𝑤 𝑤 𝑤
𝑜∈𝑂(𝑡)
Constraint (2) requires that one order be assigned to one worksta-
tion at most. Constraint (3) means that orders that can be assigned to
workstations may not necessarily be assigned during this decision, and
orders that are assigned to workstations during this decision must be
assigned. Constraint (4) indicates that the quantity of orders assigned to
workstation 𝑤 is equivalent to 𝑤’s available capacity minus its unused
capacity.
(2) Constraints between pods and workstations
∑ ∑
𝑛 ⋅ 𝑥̂ ≤ 𝑛̂ (𝑡) ⋅ 𝑧 , ∀𝑖 ∈ 𝐼, 𝑤 ∈ 𝑊 𝑎(𝑡) (5)
𝑖,𝑜 𝑜,𝑤 𝑖,𝑝 𝑝,𝑤
𝑜∈𝑂̃ 𝑖(𝑡) 𝑝∈𝑃̃ 𝑖(𝑡)
∑
𝑧 ≤ 1, ∀𝑝 ∈ 𝑃 (6)
𝑝,𝑤
𝑤∈𝑊 𝑎(𝑡)
𝑧 = 1, ∀𝑤 ∈ 𝑊 𝑎(𝑡), 𝑝 ∈ 𝑃 (𝑡) (7)
𝑝,𝑤 𝑤
Constraint (5) ensures that demand does not exceed supply, mean-
ing that the quantity of SKU 𝑖 required for all orders assigned to
workstation 𝑤 cannot exceed the quantity of SKU 𝑖 that can be provided
by all pods assigned to 𝑤. Constraint (6) guarantees that a pod can only
be assigned to a single workstation at most. Constraint (7) guarantees
all pods in 𝑃 can be assigned to workstation 𝑤, indicating that the
𝑤
current decision inherits the pods previously assigned to 𝑤 albeit have
not yet left 𝑤.
(3) Constraints between robots and pods
∑ ∑
𝑧 ≤ 𝑦 , ∀𝑝 ∈ 𝑃 (8)
𝑝,𝑤 𝑟,𝑝
𝑤∈𝑊 𝑎(𝑡) 𝑟∈𝑅
∑
𝑦 ≤ 1, ∀𝑝 ∈ 𝑃 (9)
𝑟,𝑝
𝑟∈𝑅
∑
𝑦 ≤ 1, ∀𝑟 ∈ 𝑅 (10)
𝑟,𝑝
𝑝∈𝑃
7

[[PAGE 7 RIGHT]]
𝑦 𝑟,𝑝𝑟 = 1, ∀𝑟 ∈ 𝑅𝑏(𝑡) (11)
Constraint (8) ensures that when a pod is assigned to a workstation,
there must be a corresponding robot to transport the pod. Constraint
(9) ensures that one pod can only be transported by one robot at most.
Constraint (10) means that one robot can transport up to one pod only.
Constraint (11) ensures that the occupied robot continues to perform
the current transport task.
(4) Constraints between orders, pods, and workstations
2 ⋅ 𝛿 ≤ 𝑥 + 𝑧 , ∀𝑤 ∈ 𝑊 𝑎(𝑡), 𝑝 ∈ 𝑃 𝑎(𝑡), 𝑜 ∈ 𝑂(𝑡) (12)
𝑜,𝑝,𝑤 𝑜,𝑤 𝑝,𝑤
∑
𝑧 ≤ 𝛿 , ∀𝑤 ∈ 𝑊 𝑎(𝑡), 𝑝 ∈ 𝑃 𝑎(𝑡) (13)
𝑝,𝑤 𝑜,𝑝,𝑤
𝑜∈𝑂(𝑡)
Constraint (12) ensures that when order 𝑜 is supplied by pod 𝑝 at
workstation 𝑤, 𝑜 and 𝑝 must be assigned to 𝑤. Constraint (13) ensures
that at least one assigned order can be supplied in the newly assigned
pod. It should be noted that 𝛿
𝑜,𝑝,𝑤
is an auxiliary decision variable, and
constraints (12)–(13) are all related to 𝛿 . The introduction of 𝛿
𝑜,𝑝,𝑤 𝑜,𝑝,𝑤
and its associated constraints in our model aims to ensure that one
newly assigned pod supplies at least one newly assigned order.
2.3.4. MILP model
We formulate OJOOPT, considering multiple workstations and in-
ventory, as an MILP model referred to as M1, as follows:
∑ ∑ ∑ ∑
M1(𝑡) ∶ min 𝛼 𝑥̂ + 𝛼 ( 𝑑 ⋅ 𝑧
1 𝑜,𝑤 2 𝑝,𝑤 𝑝,𝑤
𝑜∈𝑂(𝑡) 𝑤∈𝑊 𝑎(𝑡) 𝑝∈𝑃𝑎(𝑡) 𝑤∈𝑊 𝑎(𝑡)
∑ ∑ ∑
+ 𝑑 ⋅ 𝑦 ) + 𝛼 𝑢 (14)
𝑟,𝑝 𝑟,𝑝 3 𝑤
𝑟∈𝑅𝑎(𝑡) 𝑝∈𝑃𝑎(𝑡) 𝑤∈𝑊 𝑎(𝑡)
subject to: Constraints (2)–(13)
𝑥 , 𝑥̂ , 𝑧 , 𝛿 , 𝑦 ∈ {0, 1}, ∀𝑤 ∈ 𝑊 𝑎(𝑡), 𝑝 ∈ 𝑃 , 𝑜 ∈ 𝑂(𝑡), 𝑟 ∈ 𝑅
𝑜,𝑤 𝑜,𝑤 𝑝,𝑤 𝑜,𝑝,𝑤 𝑟,𝑝
(15)
𝑢 ∈ Z+, ∀𝑤 ∈ 𝑊 𝑎(𝑡) (16)
𝑤 0
Objective (14) is an expanded version of objective (1), where 𝑓 (𝑡) =
1
∑ 𝑜∈𝑂(𝑡) ∑ 𝑤∈𝑊 𝑎(𝑡) 𝑥̂ 𝑜,𝑤 and 𝑓 2 (𝑡) = ∑ 𝑜∈𝑂(𝑡) ∑ 𝑝∈𝑃 ∑ 𝑤∈𝑊 𝑎(𝑡) 𝑑 𝑝,𝑤 ⋅ 𝛿 𝑜,𝑝,𝑤 +
∑ 𝑟∈𝑅𝑎(𝑡) ∑ 𝑝∈𝑃𝑎(𝑡) 𝑑 𝑟,𝑝 ⋅ 𝑦 𝑟,𝑝 . Objective (14) has an additional penalty for
workstation unused capacity by comparison to objective (1), aiming
to increase 𝑓 (𝑡) and decrease 𝑓 (𝑡) while minimizing the amount of
1 2
unused workstation capacity. Therefore, 𝛼 is given a larger value to
3
reduce 𝑢 insofar as possible. Constraints Eqs. (15) and (16) define the
𝑤
feasible region for the decision variables, where Eq. (15) ensures that
the relevant variables are binary values and Eq. (16) ensures that 𝑢 is a
𝑤
non-negative integer value. It should be noted that M1 is generalizable
as it can easily consider other objectives. For example, if the objective
is to minimize the number of pod movements as is commonly the case
in previous studies, formula (14) can be replaced with formula (17). If
the objective is to minimize robot travel distance, formula (14) can be
replaced with formula (18).
∑ ∑ ∑
min 𝛼 𝑧 + 𝛼 𝑢 (17)
1 𝑝,𝑤 3 𝑤
𝑝∈𝑃𝑎(𝑡) 𝑤∈𝑊 𝑎(𝑡) 𝑤∈𝑊 𝑎(𝑡)
∑ ∑ ∑ ∑ ∑
min 𝛼 ( 𝑑 ⋅𝑧 + 𝑑 ⋅𝑦 )+𝛼 𝑢 (18)
2 𝑝,𝑤 𝑝,𝑤 𝑟,𝑝 𝑟,𝑝 3 𝑤
𝑝∈𝑃𝑎(𝑡) 𝑤∈𝑊 𝑎(𝑡) 𝑟∈𝑅𝑎(𝑡) 𝑝∈𝑃𝑎(𝑡) 𝑤∈𝑊 𝑎(𝑡)
Furthermore, before calling M1(𝑡), preprocessing must be performed,
which is achieved using formula (19). This means replacing 𝑂 with
𝑂̂ when the quantity of orders in 𝑂̂ exceeds 0. This is because the
proposed model consistently assigns orders with smaller objective
values at each time 𝑡, which may lead to certain orders in 𝑂 not being
assigned for an extended period, resulting in delays. To avoid this
situation, we append all orders with a residence time greater than 𝜏 to
𝑂̂ at each 𝑡; thus, orders in 𝑂̂ can be assigned preferentially in OJOOPT.
𝑂(𝑡) ← 𝑂̂(𝑡), if | |𝑂̂(𝑡)| | > 0 (19)
| |
7

[[PAGE 8 LEFT]]
The transformation of the state variable 𝐷(𝑡) to 𝐷(𝑡+1) in a dynamic
system can be represented by the function 𝐹 , as follows:
𝐷(𝑡 + 1) = 𝐹 (𝐷(𝑡), 𝑆(𝑡), 𝛤 (𝑡)) (20)
where 𝑆(𝑡) = ⟨𝑧
𝑝,𝑤
, 𝑦
𝑟,𝑝
, 𝑥
𝑜,𝑤
, 𝑥̂
𝑜,𝑤
, 𝛿
𝑜,𝑝,𝑤
, 𝑢 𝑤⟩(𝑡) denotes the OJOOPT
decision at 𝑡 and 𝛤 (𝑡) denotes a stochastic factor that arises between
𝑡 and 𝑡 + 1. The relationship between 𝐷(𝑡) and 𝐷(𝑡 + 1) is difficult to
express explicitly using mathematical formulas because of the presence
of 𝛤 (𝑡). Specifically, 𝛤 (𝑡) primarily denotes the variations in pertinent
parameters in OJOOPT induced by external events in the dynamic
system, as shown in Fig. 3. For example, PR causes a change in 𝑃 ,
𝑤
FE causes a change in 𝑐 , and FP causes a change in ℎ𝑐.
𝑤 𝑟
Moreover, 𝑑 denotes the distance traveled by robot 𝑟 from its
𝑟,𝑝
current position to the position of pod 𝑝, whereas 𝑑 denotes the
𝑝,𝑤
distance traveled by the robot from the position of pod 𝑝 to workstation
𝑤. In the RMFS map, the driving channels are directional, whereas pod
storage zones are undirected. Therefore, the robot traveling distance
cannot be simply expressed as the Manhattan distance. We utilize the
classic A* method [50] to pre-calculate and store the distance between
any two points on the map in a matrix. Therefore, the values of 𝑑
𝑟,𝑝
and 𝑑 can be obtained directly from this pre-calculated matrix when
𝑝,𝑤
necessary.
The OJOOPT further considers TA based on online joint optimiza-
tion for OA and PS. Jiao et al. [28] has proven that the online joint
optimization problem for OA and PS is NP-hard. Thus, OJOOPT in this
study is also NP-hard.
3. Heuristic
For small-scale instances, we use a commercial solver, such as
Gurobi or Cplex, to solve M1. However, this exact approach does not
effectively solve large-scale instances. Therefore, a heuristic approach
based on alternate decision-making and greedy selection (i.e., HADGS)
is designed. We embed TA into PS (denoted as PS&TA), which means
selecting the nearest robot while selecting the pod. The alternate deci-
sion refers to an alternate decision between OA and PS&TA. Greedy
selection refers to selecting orders, pods, and robots greedily in the
OA and PS&TA, and considering each other’s influence in the selection
process. Therefore, HADGS realizes joint optimization of OA, PS, and
TA through the combined effect of alternate decisions and greedy
selection. We introduce the overall HADGS approach in Section 3.1, and
the OA and PS&TA approaches in Sections 3.2 and 3.3, respectively.
3.1. HADGS
The pseudocode for the complete HADGS approach is shown in
Algorithm 1. Step 1 represents preprocessing (Lines 2–9), specifically
designed to facilitate the timely assignment of all orders in 𝑂. Step 2
initiates joint optimization. For each workstation 𝑤, order assignment
is first performed by invoking the OA approach, which allows only
orders that can be completely fulfilled by the pods in the 𝑃 (i.e., the
𝑤
set of pods previously assigned to workstation 𝑤) to be assigned to
workstation 𝑤. The term “ completely fulfilled” refers to the case in
which the pods in 𝑃 can completely fulfill all items in one order,
𝑤
without requiring the assignment of additional pods. If no such order
exists and 𝑐 > 0 at this time, the PS&TA approach is invoked for pod
𝑤
selection and task assignment (Line 14). This only allows the pod and
its corresponding robot that can completely fulfill at least one order
in 𝑂 to be assigned to workstation 𝑤; the OA approach is subsequently
reinvoked (Line 15). The aforementioned process is repeated until 𝑐 =
𝑤
0; thus, it is not necessary to continue calling the PS&TA approach,
which suggests that order requirements of 𝑤 have been satisfied.
In summary, the proposed HADGS approach has the following
advantages:
8

[[PAGE 8 RIGHT]]
Algorithm 1 Pseudocode for HADGS.
Input: 𝑊 𝑎, 𝑂, 𝑐 , 𝑃 , 𝑃 𝑎, 𝑅𝑎
𝑤 𝑤
Initialize: 𝑂̂ = ∅;
1: Step 1: Preprocessing
2: for (each order 𝑜 ∈ 𝑂) do
3: if (𝑔 𝑜 > 𝜏) then
4: add 𝑜 to 𝑂̂;
5: end if
6: end for
7: if (|𝑂̂ | > 0) then
8: 𝑂 ← 𝑂̂;
9: end if
10: Step 2: Joint optimization
11: for (each workstation 𝑤 ∈ 𝑊 𝑎) do
12: OA(𝑤, 𝑂, 𝑐 𝑤 , 𝑃 𝑤 );
13: if (𝑐 𝑤 > 0) then
14: PS&TA(𝑤, 𝑂, 𝑐 𝑤 , 𝑃 𝑤 , 𝑃 𝑎, 𝑅𝑎);
15: goto 12;
16: end if
17: end for
• OA, PS, and TA joint optimization is realized by alternating deci-
sions and considering each other’s influence in their respective
decisions. Specifically, HADGS makes the alternate decision of
OA and PS-TA through cyclic calls to the OA and PS&TA ap-
proaches. In the proposed OA approach, the assigned order must
be completely fulfilled by the set of pods (i.e., 𝑃 ) that have been
𝑤
previously assigned to the workstation. In the proposed PS&TA
approach, decisions are made simultaneously for both PS and TA
to ensure that the resulting 𝑃
𝑤
can completely fulfill at least one
order in 𝑂.
• The greedy selection strategy is employed to consider the conse-
quences of future decisions during the current decision-making
process. In the proposed OA approach, we prioritize orders that
pods close to the workstation can completely fulfill. In the pro-
posed PS&TA approach, priority is afforded to those (robot, pod)
pairs with the lowest evaluation value. Evaluation formulae (23)
and (24) are concrete forms of the formula (1), as described
in Section 2.3.2, where the long-term objective focuses on the
consequences of current decisions on future decisions.
• The computational complexity of HADGS is 𝑜(|𝑊 |⋅|𝑂|⋅|𝑃 𝑎 |(|𝑃 𝑏 |+
|𝑅𝑎 |)); thus, HADGS is a polynomial-time approach. We transform
the joint decision for multiple problems into an alternate decision
for a single problem, effectively reducing the solution complexity.
To avoid selecting multiple pods from 𝑃 𝑎 in turn, we incorporate
a hybrid approach combining a local search and mathematical
model (LSMM) into the PS&TA approach to further reduce the
solution complexity.
3.2. OA approach
In the proposed OA approach, the orders assigned to workstation 𝑤
must be completely fulfilled by the set of pods (i.e., 𝑃
𝑤
) that have been
previously assigned to the workstation.
Next, we define the two operators, J and G, in the OA approach
in Definitions 1 and 2, respectively. J represents an operator used to
determine whether an order can be completely fulfilled by the pods in
𝑃
𝑤
, and G is an operator used to evaluate the order.
Definition 1. J(𝑜): The input is order 𝑜, and if formula (21) holds, the
output is true; otherwise, the output is false.
∑
𝑛̂ ≥ 𝑛 , ∀𝑖 ∈ 𝐼 (21)
𝑖,𝑝 𝑖,𝑜 𝑜
𝑝∈𝑃𝑤
8

[[PAGE 9 LEFT]]
Definition 2. G(𝑜, 𝑤): The inputs are order 𝑜 and workstation 𝑤. First,
the pods in 𝑃 are sorted in ascending order of the distance between the
𝑤
pods and workstations. Each pod is then retrieved sequentially based on
this sorted order, and pods capable of supplying items in 𝑜 are added to
𝑃̂ until 𝑜 is completely fulfilled, that is, the pods in 𝑃̂ can completely
fulfill 𝑜. Finally, the sum of the distances between all pods in 𝑃̂ and
workstation 𝑤 is taken as the output as follows:
∑
𝐆(𝑜, 𝑤) = 𝑑 (22)
𝑝,𝑤
𝑝∈𝑃̂
Algorithm 2 provides the pseudocode for the OA approach. Specifi-
cally, for each order in 𝑂, operator J is first used to determine whether
the pods in 𝑃 can completely fulfill 𝑜. Operator G is subsequently used
𝑤
to evaluate the order, and finally, the order with the lowest evaluation
value is assigned to the workstation. If no order exists that can be
completely fulfilled by the pods in 𝑃 , the algorithm terminates (Line
𝑤
12). The stock level of the pods in the ‘‘for loop’’ (Lines 2–8) remains
unchanged, because J(𝑜) in the “ for loop” is only used to determine
whether the pods in 𝑃 can completely fulfill 𝑜. After assigning orders
𝑤
to 𝑤 (Line 10), the stock level updates such that the corresponding stock
lock in the pods used to fulfill 𝑜 can no longer participate in subsequent
decisions. Therefore, the stock level of the pods changes in the ‘‘while
loop’’ (Lines 1–14). Furthermore, the complexity of the proposed OA
approach is 𝑜(𝑐
𝑤
⋅ |𝑂| ⋅ |𝑃 𝑤|).
Algorithm 2 Pseudocode for OA approach.
Input: 𝑤, 𝑂, 𝑐 , 𝑃
𝑤 𝑤
Initialize: 𝑜̇ = ∅; 𝑑̇ = ∞
1: while (𝑐 𝑤 > 0 && |𝑂| > 0) do
2: for (each order 𝑜 ∈ 𝑂) do
3: if (J(𝑜)) then
4: if (G(𝑜, 𝑤) < 𝑑̇) then
5: 𝑑̇ ← G(𝑜, 𝑤); 𝑜̇ ← 𝑜;
6: end if
7: end if
8: end for
9: if (𝑜̇ ≠ ∅) then
10: assign 𝑜̇ to 𝑤; update stock; remove 𝑜̇ from 𝑂; 𝑐 𝑤 ← 𝑐 𝑤 − 1;
11: else
12: Break;
13: end if
14: end while
3.3. PS& TA approach
After OA is executed, if no order exists that can be completely
fulfilled by the pods in 𝑃 and 𝑐 remains greater than 0 at this time,
𝑤 𝑤
PS&TA should be executed. We embed TA into PS, i.e., select a robot
closest to the pod while selecting the pod. The concept of the proposed
PS&TA approach is to select one pod from 𝑃 𝑎 and add it to 𝑃 , which
𝑤
can completely fulfill at least one order in 𝑂. If no such pod exists,
which may require two, three or even more pods to completely fulfill
an order in 𝑂, a LSMM approach is used for PS&TA.
Subsequently, we provide a function K(𝑝) to evaluate pods in
PS&TA, as follows:
𝑲(𝑝) = 𝛼 ⋅ 𝑛̈ + 𝛼 (𝑑 + 𝑑 ) (23)
1 2 𝑟,𝑝 𝑝,𝑤
where n¨ represents the maximum quantity of orders that 𝑃 can com-
𝑤
pletely fulfill after adding 𝑝, which is then approximated via lines 4–8 in
Algorithm 3 for the purpose of reducing runtime. Notably, formula (23)
can be considered a specific version of formula (1). Therefore, formula
(23) follows the weight coefficients 𝛼 and 𝛼 of formula (1).
1 2
The pseudocode for the PS&TA method is shown in Algorithm 3.
For each pod 𝑝 in 𝑃 𝑎, n¨ is first approximated through Lines 4–8. The
9

[[PAGE 9 RIGHT]]
robot closest to 𝑝 is subsequently identified (Line 9), and 𝑝 is evaluated
by function K(𝑝). Finally, the 𝑝̇ with the lowest evaluation value is
obtained (Line 11). If 𝑝̇ is an empty set, the quantity of pods that
completely fulfill at least one order is greater than 1. When no single
pod can fulfill at least one order, it is necessary to gradually increase
the number of pods, that is, selecting two pods from 𝑃 𝑎 at a time to con-
tinue repeating the above process (Lines 2–14), which will bring huge
computational burden. Moreover, when no two pods can fulfill at least
one order, we must select three pods from 𝑃 𝑎 at a time, which further
increases the amount of calculation required. Similarly, increasing pod
quantity will significantly increase the calculation amount. Therefore,
we design the LSMM approach to continue solving PS&TA.
Algorithm 3 Pseudocode for PS&TA approach.
Input: 𝑤, 𝑂, 𝑐 , 𝑃 , 𝑃 𝑎, 𝑅𝑎
𝑤 𝑤
Initialize: 𝑝̇ = ∅; 𝑟̇ = ∅; 𝑛̇ = ∞
1: if (𝑐 𝑤 > 0 && |𝑂| > 0 && |𝑅𝑎 | > 0) then
2: for (each pod 𝑝 ∈ 𝑃 𝑎) do
3: add 𝑝 to 𝑃 𝑤 ; 𝑛̈ = 0;
4: for (each order 𝑜 ∈ 𝑂) do
5: if (J(𝑜)) then
6: 𝑛̈ ← 𝑛̈ + 1; update stock;
7: end if
8: end for
( )
9: 𝑟̇ = arg min 𝑑 𝑟,𝑝 ;
𝑟∈𝑅𝑎
10: if (K(𝑝) < 𝑛̇ ) then
11: 𝑛̇ ← K(𝑝); 𝑝̇ ← 𝑝;
12: end if
13: remove 𝑝 from 𝑃 𝑤 ; update stock;
14: end for
15: if (𝑝̇ ≡ ∅) then
16: LSMM(𝑤, 𝑂, 𝑐 𝑤 , 𝑃 𝑤 , 𝑃 𝑎, 𝑅𝑎);
17: else
18: assign 𝑝̇ to 𝑤; assign 𝑟̇ to 𝑝̇; add 𝑝̇ to 𝑃 𝑤 ;
19: remove 𝑝̇ from 𝑃 𝑎; remove 𝑟̇ from 𝑅𝑎;
20: end if
21: end if
In Algorithm 3, for each pod 𝑝, the “ for loop” (Lines 4–8) is used
to calculate the number of orders that 𝑃 can completely fulfill after
𝑤
adding 𝑝. Therefore, after it is determined that 𝑃 can completely fulfill
𝑤
order 𝑜 (i.e., J(𝑜) = true), the stock of corresponding pods in 𝑃 must
𝑤
be reduced at this time (Line 6). However, the aforementioned stock
changes only occur during the calculation process; the actual stock
changes occur only after the order is assigned to the workstation (for
example, Line 10 in Algorithm 2). Therefore, after removing this 𝑝 from
𝑃 , the stock must be restored to the original level (Line 13) to calculate
𝑤
the number of orders that the 𝑃 can completely fulfill after adding
𝑤
another 𝑝.
Before presenting the LSMM approach, we first introduce two nota-
tions, one operator, and one evaluation function.
𝑃 𝑠 Set where each element is a set of pods that can completely
𝑖
fulfill SKU 𝑖.
𝑃 𝑠 Set where each element is a set of pods that can completely
fulfill order 𝑜. The elements in 𝑃 𝑠 are composed of elements from 𝑃 𝑠.
𝑖
Definition 3. E(𝑜): The input and output are 𝑜 and 𝑃 𝑠, respectively.
The operator first obtains the corresponding 𝑃 𝑠 for all SKU 𝑖 in 𝑜, takes
one element from each 𝑃 𝑠 to form 𝑃 𝑠, and ens
𝑖
ures that the quantity of
pods in each element of 𝑃
𝑖
𝑠 does not exceed the quantity of idle robots
in 𝑅𝑎.
∑
𝑲𝑺(𝑅𝑃 ) = 𝛼 ⋅ 𝑛̈ + 𝛼 (𝑑 + 𝑑 ) (24)
1 2 𝑟,𝑝 𝑝,𝑤
(𝑟,𝑝)∈𝑅𝑃
9

[[PAGE 10 LEFT]]
Fig. 4. Example of 𝑃
where 𝑅𝑃 represents the set of tuple (𝑟, 𝑝) and tuple (𝑟, 𝑝) represents the
matching relationship between pod 𝑝 and robot 𝑟 (i.e., 𝑝 is transported
by 𝑟). Formula (24) can be considered a generalized version of formula
(23). This is because formula (24) applies to the case of multiple robots
and multiple pods, while formula (23) only applies to the case of one
robot and one pod. Therefore, formula (24) also follows the weight
coefficients 𝛼 and 𝛼 of formula (1). Moreover, if other objectives are
1 2
to be considered, we can modify formulae (23) and (24) according to
the modification of formula (14).
Fig. 4 shows a simple example of 𝑃 𝑠, 𝑃 𝑠, and E(𝑜). Among these, 𝑃 𝑎
𝑖
has four pods: 𝑝 , 𝑝 , 𝑝 , and 𝑝 . Order 𝑜 contains three SKU 1 and two
1 2 3 4
SKU 2. Two sets of pods completely fulfill SKU 1: 𝑃 𝑠 = {{𝑝 }, {𝑝 }}.
1 1 3
Two sets of pods completely fulfill SKU2: 𝑃 𝑠 = {{𝑝 }, {𝑝 }}. Then,
2 2 4
one element in 𝑃 𝑠 is taken in turn and combined to form 𝑃 𝑠: 𝑃 𝑠 =
𝑖
{{𝑝 , 𝑝 }, {𝑝 , 𝑝 }, {𝑝 , 𝑝 }, {𝑝 , 𝑝 }}. Therefore, each element in 𝑃 𝑠 can
1 2 1 4 3 2 3 4 𝑖
completely fulfill SKU 𝑖 contained in 𝑜, whereas each element in 𝑃 𝑠
can also completely fulfill 𝑜.
LSMM is a hybrid approach that combines local search and mathe-
matical models, and its pseudocode is presented in Algorithm 4. First,
one order 𝑜 is randomly extracted from 𝑂, and 𝑃 𝑠 is obtained through
E(𝑜). If 𝑃 𝑠 is an empty set, the number of pods in all elements of 𝑃 𝑠 is
greater than the number of idle robots in 𝑅𝑎, and the algorithm returns
directly. To improve computational efficiency, we do not evaluate all
pod sets in 𝑃 𝑠, albeit randomly select one pod set from 𝑃 𝑠 each time
and limit the evaluation times by setting a threshold value 𝑙 . We
1
subsequently utilize the 0–1 integer programming (IP) model to solve
the matching relationship (i.e., 𝑅𝑃 ) between pods in 𝑃̌ and robots in
𝑅𝑎. The 𝑅𝑃 is evaluated by the evaluation function KS (formula (24))
such that the 𝑅̇𝑃 with the minimum evaluation value can be obtained.
It should be noted that the manner in which n¨ is obtained in formula
(23) is similar to that in formula (24), and can be referred to in Lines
4–8 of Algorithm 3. Moreover, owing to the randomness in selecting
the order (Line 2) and the corresponding pod set (Line 8), a local
search strategy is incorporated to enhance the quality of the solution.
As shown in Lines 15–18, the algorithm returns to Line 1 to repeat the
aforementioned process when 𝑖 < 𝑙 , where 𝑙 represents the count of
2 2 2
the local search performed.
IP is an assignment model suitable for scenarios where the quantity
of robots is not less than that of the pods. The inputs of IP are 𝑃̌ and
𝑅𝑎, and the output is the matching relationship 𝑅𝑃 between 𝑃̌ and 𝑅𝑎,
as follows:
∑ ∑
IP ∶ min 𝑑 ⋅ 𝑦 (25)
𝑟,𝑝 𝑟,𝑝
𝑟∈𝑅𝑎 𝑝∈𝑃̌
s.t. ∑ 𝑦 = 1, ∀𝑝 ∈ 𝑃̌ (26)
𝑟,𝑝
𝑟∈𝑅𝑎
∑
𝑦 ≤ 1, ∀𝑟 ∈ 𝑅𝑎 (27)
𝑟,𝑝
𝑝∈𝑃̌
𝑦 ∈ {0, 1}, ∀𝑟 ∈ 𝑅𝑎, 𝑝 ∈ 𝑃̌ (28)
𝑟,𝑝
Objective (25) minimizes the sum of distances between robots and
pods. Constraint (26) ensures that each pod is transported by a robot.
Constraint (27) ensures that each robot can only transport a maximum
of one pod. Constraint (28) defines the domain of the decision variable.
10

[[PAGE 10 RIGHT]]
e of 𝑃𝑠, 𝑃𝑠, and E(𝑜).
𝑖
Algorithm 4 Pseudocode for LSMM approach.
Input: 𝑤, 𝑂, 𝑐 , 𝑃 , 𝑃 𝑎, 𝑅𝑎;
𝑤 𝑤
Initialize: 𝑃 𝑠 = ∅; 𝑅𝑃 = ∅; 𝑅̇𝑃 = ∅; 𝑛̇ = ∞; 𝑖 = 0
2
1: if (𝑐 𝑤 > 0 && |𝑂| > 0 && |𝑅𝑎 | > 0) then
2: randomly take an order 𝑜 from 𝑂;
3: 𝑃 𝑠 = E(o); 𝑖 1 = 0;
4: if (𝑃 𝑠 = ∅) then
5: return;
6: end if
7: while (|𝑃 𝑠 | > 0 && 𝑖 1 < 𝑙 1 ) do
8: randomly take a pods set 𝑃̌ from 𝑃 𝑠 and delete it from 𝑃 𝑠;
9: 𝑅𝑃 ← IP(𝑃̌, 𝑅𝑎);
10: if (KS(𝑅𝑃 ) < 𝑛̇ ) then
11: 𝑛̇ ← KS(𝑅𝑃 ); 𝑅̇𝑃 ← 𝑅𝑃 ;
12: end if
13: 𝑖 1 ← 𝑖 1 + 1;
14: end while
15: if ( 𝑖 2 < 𝑙 2 ) then
16: 𝑖 2 ← 𝑖 2 + 1;
17: goto 1;
18: end if
19: end if
20: for (each (𝑟, 𝑝) ∈ 𝑅̇𝑃 ) do
21: assign 𝑝 to 𝑤; assign 𝑟 to 𝑝; add 𝑝 to 𝑃 𝑤 ; remove 𝑝 from 𝑃 𝑎;
remove 𝑟 from 𝑅𝑎;
22: end for
Additionally, there are only |𝑅𝑎 |⋅|𝑃̌ | decision variables and constraints
in IP, which can be rapidly solved using commercial software. In
summary, the complexity of LSMM is 𝑜(𝑙 1 ⋅ 𝑙 2 ⋅ |𝑃 𝑎 | ⋅ |𝑅𝑎 |). Furthermore,
the complexity of the PS&TA approach is 𝑜(|𝑂| ⋅ |𝑃 𝑎 |(|𝑃 𝑏 | + |𝑅𝑎 |)).
4. Numerical experiments
All instances were executed on an x64 PC (Intel Core i7-8650,
3.60 GHz, and 32.0 GB RAM). The experimental framework was de-
veloped using C# 8.0, and Gurobi 9.5.2 was employed to solve mathe-
matical models. Next, we introduce the experimental framework, per-
formance evaluation, sensitivity analysis, and some managerial insights
in Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4, respectively.
4.1. Experimental framework
RAWSim-O is a simulation framework for RMFS, detailed in Sec-
tion 2.2. Numerous studies have recently applied RAWSim-O to eval-
uate the performance of related algorithms. RAWSim-O was utilized
by Merschformann et al. [7] to examine the effect of various rule com-
binations on diverse performance metrics, including distance traveled
per robot, order throughput, order turnaround time, and pile-on. Xie
et al. [8] introduced order split into RMFS and applied RAWSim-O for
evaluation. Jiao et al. [28] conducted online joint optimization for OA
10

[[PAGE 11 LEFT]]
Fig. 5. Layout of small-scale instances. (For interpretation of the references to color
Fig. 6. Layout of large-scale instances. (For interpretation of the references to color
and PS in RMFS and utilized the extended RAWSim-O to validate their
proposed model and methodology.
Moreover, this study developed a new solver in the extended EE-
RAWSim-O to solve OJOOPT. Specifically, the new solver includes two
options: utilizing Gurobi to solve M1 (referred to as M1G) and HADGS.
Whenever a 𝑐 is not less than 𝛿, the new solver is triggered. For more
𝑤
information regarding the EE-RAWSim-O, please refer to the source
code at https://github.com/LBJiao/EE-RAWSim-O.
In actual RMFS, robots charge whenever their battery is low; more-
over, they do not always remain in working mode. However, as this
study primarily focuses on decision-making issues in RMFS at the opera-
tional level, the robot charging issue in simulation is considered outside
the scope of this work; thus, all robots’ battery levels in RAWSim-O
are considered unlimited. RAWSim-O input primarily consists of three
parts: layout, instance, and solver configuration.
4.1.1. Layout configuration
To enhance the evaluation of both the model and approach, problem
instances are categorized into small- and large-scale instances. The
11

[[PAGE 11 RIGHT]]
o color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
specific layout parameters, including the quantity of pods, storage
locations, picking and replenishment workstations, picking workstation
capacity, and length of queuing zone, are presented in Table 5. The
top view of the layout for small-scale instances is shown in Fig. 5, and
that for large-scale instances is shown in Fig. 6. In Figs. 5 and 6, a blue
square denotes a pod, a gray circle denotes a robot, a red square denotes
a picking workstation, and a yellow square denotes a replenishment
workstation.
4.1.2. Instance configuration
Table 6 provides values for some parameters used to generate differ-
ent instances, including the number of orders in backlog, robots, work-
stations, and capacity threshold. Instance configuration also includes
information such as order and inventory generation, robot movement,
and workstation operations. We set the aforementioned parameters
based on the study reported in [7], as detailed in Appendix A. Notably,
the number of lines and items per order are created from truncated nor-
mal distributions, which are intended to simulate the characteristics of
11

[[PAGE 12 LEFT]]
Table 5
Layout parameters.
Parameter Value
Small-scale Large-scale
Quantity of pods 100 1200
Quantity of storage locations 120 1352
Quantity of picking workstations 2 12
Quantity of repl. workstations 2 6
Picking workstation capacity 6 12
Length of queuing zone 9 15
Table 6
Parameter information for different instances.
Symbol Description Value
Small-scale Large-scale
|𝑂| Quantity of orders 70,85,100 300,400,500
in backlog
𝛿 Capacity threshold 1,2,3,4 1
|𝑅| Quantity of robots 6,7,8,9,10,11,12 60,70,80,90,100,110,120
|𝑊 | Quantity of 2 4,6,8,10,12
workstations
Table 7
Decision-making approaches in the simulation experiment.
Problem SEQU OJOOP OJOOPT
OA Pod-Match
PS Demand
M2G
M1G, HADGS
TA Balanced Balanced
PR Nearest Nearest Nearest
PP WHCA∗ WHCA∗ WHCA∗
ROA Pod-Ba
𝑛
tch Pod-Ba
𝑛
tch Pod-Ba
𝑛
tch
RPS Emptiest Emptiest Emptiest
RTA Balanced Balanced Balanced
online retail orders. In addition, to generating inventory, the type and
size of SKUs follow exponential and uniform distributions, respectively.
4.1.3. Solver configuration
In the simulation experiment, the sequential decision approach used
in practice (SEQU) and the approach for solving the MILP model
utilizing Gurobi (M2G) proposed by Jiao et al. [28] in the online joint
optimization of OA and PS (OJOOP) are compared with the proposed
approach. We conduct small-scale instances for M1G, M2G, HADGS,
and SEQU. M1G is a method that utilizes Gurobi to solve mathematical
model M1, which is an exact method that serves as a benchmark for
heuristic methods. Owing to their inability to solve large-scale instances
within a finite time frame, both M1G and M2G are unsuitable for such
scenarios. For example, even after running for 24 h at 𝑡 = 1 in a
large-scale instance, M1G still leaves a gap of 15.4%. Consequently, we
exclusively evaluated HADGS and SEQU in large-scale instances.
The relevant decision-making problems involved in RMFS at the
operational level were defined in Section 1.1. Their corresponding
decision-making approach used in the simulation experiments are pre-
sented in Table 7. The decision-making approach used in SEQU is a
combination of Pod Match, Demand, Balanced, Nearest, WHCA∗, Pod
𝑛
Batch, Emptiest, and Balanced. The choice of these aforementioned
approaches in this study is based on the experimental findings reported
by Merschformann et al. [7], because the combination of approaches ul-
timately achieves the highest throughput. See [7] for further details of
such approaches, which are not repeated in this paper. The remaining
decisions in OJOOPT and OJOOP are the same as SEQU except for the
approaches for their respective joint decisions.
We set the threshold 𝜏 to 30 min and the value of 𝛼 to 1000. In
3
addition, the values of some important parameters in M1G and HADGS
are determined by a series of preliminary experiments. The two weight
coefficients of the optimization objectives are set to 𝛼 = −40 and
1
𝛼 = 1, respectively. We set the pod set quantity of evaluations to
2
12

[[PAGE 12 RIGHT]]
𝑙 = 10, and the quantity of local searches to 𝑙 = 3. We also set the
1 2
threshold of available capacity of the workstation that triggers OJOOPT
to 𝛿 = 1.
All results obtained by the model-based method (including M1G and
M2G) in the experimental results are optimal solutions; that is, there is
no optimal gap.
4.1.4. Performance metrics
This study employs the following four performance metrics to eval-
uate the relevant approaches:
• Throughput (𝑇 𝑃 ), which represents the operational efficiency of
RMFS, is calculated by dividing the aggregate quantity of orders
fulfilled by the hours spent fulfilling them.
• Robot distance (𝑅𝐷), which represents the aggregate distance
traveled by all robots, is calculated by summing up the summation
of distances traveled by each robot within the simulation horizon.
A smaller 𝑅𝐷 indicates lower RMFS power consumption and
running costs.
• Order distance (𝑂𝐷), which represents the average distance trav-
eled by robots per order, is calculated by dividing 𝑅𝐷 by the
aggregate quantity of orders fulfilled. Similar to the 𝑅𝐷, the
smaller the 𝑂𝐷, the less robot power consumption per order on
average, and the lower the RMFS running cost.
• Pile-on (𝑃 𝑂), which represents the average quantity of orders
fulfilled per pod movement, is calculated by dividing the aggre-
gate quantity of fulfilled orders by the aggregate quantity of pod
movements. The larger the 𝑃 𝑂, the more orders are fulfilled per
pod movement, which improves RMFS operational efficiency.
To mitigate the impact of the dynamic environment on RMFS, each
instance is run ten times for a simulation horizon of 2 h.
4.2. Performance evaluation
4.2.1. Small-scale instances
Table 8 presents the performance evaluation results for small-scale
instances (|𝑅| = 10 and |𝑂| = 70, 85, 100). Column “𝑉 ” represents
the performance metric value. Column “𝛥𝑉 ” (in %) represents the gap
between the relevant approaches and M1G regarding 𝑉 . Column “ AT”
(denoted in seconds) represents the average computation time of the
approach and is calculated by dividing the aggregate calculation time
of the approach in the simulation horizon by the overall number of
calls.
Table 8 shows that, for performance metrics 𝑇 𝑃 , 𝑅𝐷, and 𝑂𝐷 in
small instances, M1G is significantly better than SEQU and M2G under
different |𝑂| conditions. However, for performance metric 𝑃 𝑂, M1G
is better than SEQU, albeit worse than M2G. Specifically, for the 𝑇 𝑃 ,
𝑅𝐷, 𝑂𝐷, and 𝑃 𝑂, the average 𝛥𝑉 of SEQU is 12.41, 22.05, 39.39, and
34.49%, respectively; the average 𝛥𝑉 of M2G is 1.22, 3.57, 4.58, and
−4.43%, respectively. Furthermore, the 𝛥𝑉 of HADGS is minimal, with
average values of 0.22, 1.16, 1.55, and 2.02% for the four performance
metrics, respectively.
Note that, for 𝑃 𝑂, the 𝛥𝑉 of M2G is negative; thus, the 𝑃 𝑂 of M1G is
smaller than that of M2G. The primary reason for the aforementioned
results is that the optimization objective of M2G is to minimize pod
movements, whereas that of M1G is to minimize the robot travel
distance while maximizing the quantity of orders fulfilled by selected
pods. Therefore, when M1G achieves the optimal objective value, it
does not necessarily result in an optimal quantity of pod movements.
Consequently, the quantity of pod movements in M2G is lower than in
M1G for fulfilling the same quantity of orders. Consequently, the 𝑃 𝑂
of M1G is smaller than that of M2G.
Table 8 shows that in small-scale instances, M1G’s AT is less than
that of M2G, whereas the AT of SEQU and HADGS, less than 0.00 s,
is almost insignificant. As the quantity of orders increases, the AT for
12

[[PAGE 13 LEFT]]
Table 8
Calculation results of small-scale instances.
|𝑂| Metrics M1G HADGS
𝑉 AT 𝑉 𝛥𝑉 AT
𝑇 𝑃 310.30 309.95 0.11
𝑅𝐷 15 139 15 281 0.94
70
𝑂𝐷 24.39
0.06
24.65 1.07
0.00
𝑃𝑂 2.98 2.91 2.35
𝑇 𝑃 313.60 312.90 0.22
𝑅𝐷 14 404 14 593 1.31
85
𝑂𝐷 22.97
0.09
23.28 1.35
0.00
𝑃𝑂 3.18 3.12 1.89
𝑇 𝑃 314.50 313.48 0.32
𝑅𝐷 14 122 14 295 1.23
100
𝑂𝐷 22.45
0.12
22.95 2.23
0.00
𝑃𝑂 3.30 3.24 1.82
Table 9
Calculation results of M1G and HADGS with different parameter combinat
ID Parameters M1G
|𝑂| |𝑅| |𝑃| 𝑇 𝑃 𝑅𝐷 𝑂𝐷 𝑃𝑂
1 100 10 100 314 23 325 37.14 3.09
2 100 20 100 316 24 523 38.8 3.29
3 100 10 200 309 23 149 37.46 3.43
4 100 20 200 314 24 365 38.8 3.36
5 100 30 200 313 25 107 40.11 3.41
6 150 10 100 326 22 059 33.83 3.7
7 150 20 200 321 23 820 37.1 3.47
8 150 30 200 321 25 100 39.1 3.45
9 150 30 300 333 27 805 41.75 3.26
10 150 40 400 329 25 514 38.78 3.35
11 200 10 100 328 21 617 32.96 3.71
12 200 20 200 327 23 912 36.56 3.73
13 200 30 100 332 25 733 38.75 3.44
14 200 20 300 339 23 947 35.32 3.81
15 200 30 200 326 25 096 38.49 3.51
16 250 40 200 327 25 711 39.31 3.54
17 250 40 300 338 29 603 43.79 3.54
18 250 50 300 337 28 696 42.57 3.51
19 250 40 400 327 26 010 39.77 3.15
20 250 50 400 327 26 133 39.96 3.2
M1G and M2G shows an upward trend, whereas the AT for SEQU and
HADGS remains relatively stable. The aforementioned results indicate
that using Gurobi to solve MILP models exhibits a greater sensitivity to
order quantity fluctuations compared to heuristic approaches.
Additionally, for exact approach like M1G, the computation time is
influenced by multiple parameters such as the number of orders, pods,
and robots. To determine the size of instances that the exact approach
can handle, we must modify the layout of Fig. 5 by adding four vertical
aisles and four horizon aisles to arrange more pods. Other parameters,
except for the number of orders, pods, and robots, are consistent with
the small-scale instances. We ran the test on 20 instances of different
parameter combinations, and the results are shown in Table 9. The
column “𝛥” (in %) represents the average gap between HADGS and M1G
regarding the four performance metrics.
Table 9 shows that, with the gradual increase of instance scale, the
AT of M1G increases rapidly, reaching a maximum of 4.32 s; however,
the AT of HADGS increase slowly, with a maximum of less than 0.03 s.
In a real RMFS, the decision time is generally required to be no more
than 3 s [22]. Furthermore, for instances of different scales, the value
of 𝛥 is relatively small, averaging at 1.01%.
4.2.2. Large-scale instances
Table 10 presents the performance evaluation results for large-scale
instances (|𝑅| = 100 and |𝑂| = 300, 400, 500). Column “𝛥𝑉 ” (in %)
represents the gap between SEQU and HADGS regarding 𝑉 . Table 10
shows that, in large instances, HADGS significantly outperforms SEQU
in terms of all the performance metrics, while its AT is only slightly
13

[[PAGE 13 RIGHT]]
SEQU M2G
AT 𝑉 𝛥𝑉 AT 𝑉 𝛥𝑉 AT
275.20 11.31 306.67 1.17
17 961 18.64 15 422 1.87
0.00
32.63 33.78
0.00
25.14 3.08
0.25
2.02 32.21 3.08 −3.36
275.78 12.06 309.80 1.21
17 898 24.26 14 994 4.1
0.00
32.45 41.27
0.00
24.12 5.01
0.33
2.09 34.28 3.38 −6.29
270.92 13.86 310.44 1.29
17 406 23.25 14 791 4.74
0.00
32.13 43.12
0.00
23.72 5.66
0.39
2.08 36.97 3.42 −3.64
mbinations.
HADGS
𝑂 AT 𝑇 𝑃 𝑅𝐷 𝑂𝐷 𝑃𝑂 𝛥 AT
.09 0.12 313 23 523 37.64 3.03 1.12 0.00
.29 0.38 314 24 795 39.48 3.25 1.18 0.00
.43 0.85 307 23 329 38.05 3.37 1.19 0.01
.36 1.13 312 24 564 39.37 3.32 1.03 0.01
.41 1.65 312 25 378 40.67 3.34 1.11 0.01
.7 0.59 324 22 245 34.38 3.64 1.18 0.01
.47 1.29 320 24 026 37.6 3.42 0.99 0.01
.45 1.97 319 25 151 39.48 3.41 0.74 0.01
.26 2.35 331 28 084 42.48 3.21 1.22 0.02
.35 3.19 327 25 702 39.36 3.28 1.24 0.02
.71 1.03 327 21 808 33.35 3.67 0.86 0.01
.73 1.44 325 24 100 37.08 3.7 0.91 0.02
.44 1.25 331 26 007 39.35 3.39 1.09 0.02
.81 2.38 337 24 135 35.81 3.75 1.09 0.02
.51 2.13 325 25 274 38.88 3.48 0.72 0.02
.54 2.49 326 25 866 39.67 3.5 0.74 0.02
.54 3.06 337 29 760 44.15 3.49 0.77 0.03
.51 3.36 335 28 944 43.2 3.45 1.16 0.03
.15 4.01 326 26 163 40.13 3.11 0.77 0.03
.2 4.32 325 26 359 40.61 3.17 1.01 0.03
Table 10
Calculation results of large-scale instances.
|𝑂| Metrics SEQU HADGS
𝑉 𝛥𝑉 AT 𝑉 AT
𝑇 𝑃 1676.46 7.73 1816.91
𝑅𝐷 244 610 29.88 188 341
300
𝑂𝐷 72.97 40.79
0.09
51.83
0.17
𝑃𝑂 2.34 34.82 3.59
𝑇 𝑃 1646.35 11.10 1852.00
𝑅𝐷 238 881 30.96 182 409
400
𝑂𝐷 72.57 47.35
0.12
49.25
0.18
𝑃𝑂 2.32 45.67 4.27
𝑇 𝑃 1631.90 13.40 1884.33
𝑅𝐷 235 571 35.23 174 206
500
𝑂𝐷 72.18 56.13
0.15
46.23
0.21
𝑃𝑂 2.34 50.11 4.69
greater than SEQU’s AT. For example, at |𝑂| = 100, HADGS’s AT is only
0.06 s longer than SEQU’s; however, the four performance metrics im-
proved by 13.40, 35.23, 56.13, and 20.11%, respectively. Furthermore,
the AT of HADGS exhibits a maximum value of 0.21 s. Thus, the HADGS
calculation time, which is specifically designed to address large-scale
instances, can meet practical application requirements.
Additionally, we further compare the proposed online approach
(i.e., HADGS) with the offline approach (i.e., bi-level memetic (BLM))
proposed by Teck and Dewil [25]. Because HADGS is an online ap-
proach, it must be run in EE-RAWSim-O, while BLM is an offline
13

[[PAGE 14 LEFT]]
Fig. 7. Influence of
Table 11
Calculation results of HADGS and BLM in large-scale instances.
ID HADGS BLM
𝑀𝑆 𝛥1 𝑅𝐷 𝛥2 AT 𝑀𝑆 𝑅𝐷 AT
1 1647 11.43 195 13.37 0.11 1478 172 11 744
2 1632 10.2 200 12.99 0.12 1481 177 12 187
3 1643 10.19 202 12.22 0.10 1491 180 11 828
4 1685 11.74 197 13.22 0.13 1508 174 11 683
5 1663 10.72 196 13.95 0.12 1502 172 11 792
A 1654 10.86 198 13.15 0.12 1492 175 11 847
approach and can be run directly. Therefore, to compare HADGS with
BLM, corresponding modifications must be made to EE-RAWSim-O and
BLM, as detailed in Appendix B. We use makespan (𝑀𝑆) and robot
distance (𝑅𝐷) as performance metrics. The test is conducted on a total
of five instances, with each instance running ten times, and the results
are averaged. The results are shown in Table 11, where column “𝛥1” (in
%) represents the gap between HADGS and BLM regarding 𝑀𝑆, column
“𝛥2” (in %) represents the gap between HADGS and BLM regarding 𝑅𝐷,
and row “ A” represents the related values average.
As shown in Table 11, compared to HADGS, although BLM reduced
by an average of 10.86 and 13.15% in 𝑀𝑆 and 𝑅𝐷 respectively,
it significantly increased AT to 11 847 s. Although the offline ap-
proach performed better, additional computational effort was required
in which further cost was accrued. Obviously, such a significant AT is
unacceptable for any real-time decision-making system.
4.3. Sensitivity analysis
4.3.1. Capacity threshold of workstations
As stated in Section 2.1, the 𝛿 parameter represents the threshold for
the workstation available capacity. The solver is triggered when any
workstation’s available capacity exceeds or equals 𝛿. This subsection
explores the influence of the 𝛿 value on the performance metrics for
small-scale instances. The larger the 𝛿, the greater the quantity of orders
assigned in a single decision. This leads to a stronger positive impact on
14

[[PAGE 14 RIGHT]]
nce of parameter 𝛿.
performance metrics owing to the increased correlation between these
orders. However, a larger 𝛿 results in longer time intervals between
consecutive decisions, potentially retracting some pods that can still
fulfill orders in |𝑂| back to the storage zone, thereby adversely impact-
ing performance metrics. Therefore, the value of 𝛿 significantly impacts
the performance of associated decision approaches. The influence of
different 𝛿 values in small-scale instances (|𝑅| = 10 and |𝑂| = 100) is
illustrated in Fig. 7.
As observed in Fig. 7, for all performance metrics, the performance
of SEQU, HADGS, and M1G deteriorates with increasing 𝛿, whereas
the performance of M2G initially improves and subsequently deterio-
rates. SEQU, HADGS, and M1G demonstrate peak performance when
𝛿 = 1, whereas M2G demonstrates peak performance when 𝛿 = 2.
There are several reasons for these aforementioned disparities. First,
the correlation between orders is not considered in SEQU and thus
cannot positively impact performance. Therefore, the greater the value
of 𝛿, the greater the negative effect and the worse the performance of
SEQU. Second, the correlation between orders is well considered in
M2G, which can positively impact performance. Therefore, with the
increase in 𝛿, the negative effect gradually outweighs the positive effect,
resulting in an initial improvement and subsequent deterioration in
M2G performance. Third, HADGS and M1G are joint decision-making
methods that encompass OA, PS, and TA. These methods are effective
only when the quantity of idle robots is not less than the quantity
of pods that must be transported. Although HADGS and M1G also
consider the correlation between orders, it can positively impact per-
formance. However, assigning more orders means that more pods must
be transported, which may negatively impact performance. For HADGS
and M1G, the increase in 𝛿 exhibits a greater negative impact on
their performance than a positive impact, leading to a decline in their
performance. In summary, in the simulation experiment, we set 𝛿 to 1
for SEQU, HSDGS, and M1G, while 𝛿 is set to 2 for M2G.
4.3.2. Quantity of robots
The scale of the robot fleet deployed in RMFS, that is, the quantity
of robots, significantly impacts RMFS operational efficiency. The ap-
propriate quantity of robots can enhance productivity, improve order
14

[[PAGE 15 LEFT]]
Fig. 8. Influence of different quantities
fulfillment speed, and reduce errors in picking and sorting operations.
When the quantity of robots deployed in the RMFS is sufficient, all
transportation tasks can be immediately executed by robots. This avoids
the situation of “ picker waiting parts” insofar as possible. Therefore,
increasing the quantity of robots deployed in RMFS can decrease the
waiting time for pickers and enhance resource utilization, which pos-
itively impacts operational efficiency. Conversely, an increase in the
quantity of robots results in longer queuing times in the queuing zone
and amplifies the likelihood of congestion, collisions, and deadlocks
along robots paths, thereby negatively impacting operational efficiency.
Therefore, we conducted experiments to examine the impact of varying
the quantity of robots on pertinent performance metrics.
Fig. 8 displays the influence of different quantities of robots in
small-scale instances (|𝑅| = 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and |𝑂| = 100). The 𝑇 𝑃
of all four approaches demonstrates an upward trend as the quantity
of robots increases, eventually stabilizing after reaching a threshold
of ten robots. When the quantity of robots is small, there are more
transportation tasks than available robots, leading to causes of “ picker
waiting parts”. In this scenario, the positive impact of increasing the
quantity of robots outweighs the negative impact, resulting in improved
𝑇 𝑃 as the robot quantity increases. When the robot quantity reaches
saturation, where there are consistently more available robots than
transportation tasks, leading to causes of “ parts waiting picker”. In
this scenario, the positive impact initially generated by increasing the
quantity of robots is gradually counterbalanced by the negative impact,
resulting in a plateau of 𝑇 𝑃 growth. For the 𝑅𝐷, an increase in robot
quantity involved in transportation inevitably increases the aggregate
distance traveled by all robots. Additionally, because the quantity of
orders fulfilled in a transportation task is typically greater than 1
(i.e., 𝑃 𝑂 > 1), the 𝑂𝐷 also increases with the increase in robot quantity.
For the 𝑃 𝑂, as the quantity of robots increases, HADGS, M1G, and
M2G all significantly increase in contrast to SEQU, which decreases.
This discrepancy can be attributed to the fact that the increase in 𝑇 𝑃
for HADGS, M1G, and M2G is more pronounced compared to that for
SEQU as shown in Fig. 8(a). Moreover, an increase in 𝑇 𝑃 is indicative
of a higher quantity of orders that require fulfillment, while an increase
15

[[PAGE 15 RIGHT]]
ntities of robots in small-scale instances.
in the quantity of robots implies a higher quantity of pod movements
that can be provided. Therefore, per the definition of 𝑃 𝑂, when the
increase in 𝑇 𝑃 exceeds that of the robots, 𝑃 𝑂 will increase, as observed
in HADGS, M1G, and M2G. Conversely, when the increase in 𝑇 𝑃 is less
than that of the robots, 𝑃 𝑂 will decrease, as observed in SEQU.
Fig. 9 shows the influence of different quantities of robots in large-
scale instances (|𝑅| = 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 110, 120, and |𝑂| = 500). As the
quantity of robots increases, the changing trend of SEQU and HADGS
in large-scale instances remains consistent with that in small-scale
instances across the four performance metrics. The reasons for these
changes are also the same as those observed in small-scale instances.
The only disparity is that, as the quantity of robots increases, the 𝑃 𝑂
of HADGS exhibits an upward trend in large-scale instances, albeit a
downward trend in small-scale instances. The reason for this disparity
is that in large-scale instances, the increase in the quantity of robots
surpasses the corresponding increase in 𝑇 𝑃 for HADGS. Consequently,
the 𝑃 𝑂 of HADGS decreases with the increasing robot quantity.
The aforementioned results demonstrate that, by optimizing rele-
vant decision-making approaches, the quantity of robots deployed in
RMFS could be effectively decreased. This suggests that enhancing
the performance of the decision-making approach can lead to more
optimal resource allocation and utilization, resulting in a reduction of
the necessity for numerous robots. Specifically, in small-scale instances,
the 𝑇 𝑃 of M1G when |𝑅| = 6 remains 8% higher than that of SEQU
when |𝑅| = 12 while reducing the corresponding 𝑅𝐷 by 38%; in large-
scale instances, the 𝑇 𝑃 of HADGS when |𝑅| = 60 remains 6% higher
than that of SEQU when |𝑅| = 120 while reducing the corresponding
𝑅𝐷 by 50%. Hence, M1G and HADGS employ at most half the quantity
of robots employed in SEQU to achieve an equivalent throughput for
both small and large instances. Meanwhile, the corresponding distance
traveled by robots is only 62 and 57% of that in SEQU, respectively.
4.3.3. Quantity of workstations
Based on a survey of an RMFS owned by a large retail company, we
observed that managers frequently adjust the quantity of workstations
(referring to active workstations) based on the total volume of customer
15

[[PAGE 16 LEFT]]
Fig. 9. Influence of different quantities
orders. This proactive adjustment helps to minimize operating costs,
optimize resource allocation, and enhance efficiency. Specifically, man-
agers activate some workstations during the peak season and close some
workstations during the off-season. Therefore, next, we investigate
the influence of the quantity of workstations on an RMFS. Fig. 10
illustrates the influence of different quantities of workstations in large-
scale instances (|𝑅| = 100 and |𝑂| = 500), where DV represents the gap
in performance metric values between HADGS and SEQU.
As observed in Fig. 10, HADGS outperforms SEQU in all perfor-
mance metrics for different workstation quantities. With the increase
in the quantity of workstations, 𝑇 𝑃 and 𝑅𝐷 of HADGS and SEQU
increased gradually, 𝑂𝐷 of HADGS and SEQU decreased gradually,
𝑃 𝑂 of SEQU increased gradually, 𝑃 𝑂 of HADGS increased initially
and subsequently decreased. The aforementioned results indicate that
when the quantity of orders from customers is small (i.e., expected
TP is small), the 𝑅𝐷 could be reduced by reducing the quantity of
workstations. Therefore, workstation quantity adjustment based on the
order volume can optimize cost in situations where the expected TP is
relatively low.
In addition, as the workstation quantity increases, the DV for 𝑇 𝑃 ,
𝑅𝐷, and 𝑃 𝑂 initially increases and subsequently decreases, while the
DV for 𝑂𝐷 gradually decreases. 𝑂𝐷 is equivalent to the throughput
divided by the distance traveled by robots. Therefore, as the work-
station quantity increases, 𝑂𝐷 decreases when the increment of the
𝑇 𝑃 is less than that of the 𝑅𝐷. The aforementioned results show that
the performance improvement of HADGS over SEQU increases initially
and subsequently decreases as the quantity of workstations increases.
Moreover, as illustrated in Fig. 10(a), the 𝑇 𝑃 of HADGS at |𝑊 | = 10 is
almost the same as that of SEQU at |𝑊 | = 12, indicating that HADGS
requires fewer workstations when the same 𝑇 𝑃 is reached.
4.4. Managerial insights
Based on the results of these simulation experiments, the following
warehouse managerial insights were identified:
16

[[PAGE 16 RIGHT]]
ntities of robots in large-scale instances.
• Reducing the number of pod movements does not necessarily en-
hance warehouse operational efficiency, which deviates from con-
ventional perspectives in existing literature. For example, from
the perspective of system operational costs, Teck and Dewil [26]
found that only minimizing the number of pod movements is
insufficient and using distance as the optimization objective is
more suitable for optimizing operational costs. From the perspec-
tive of system operational efficiency (i.e. throughput), this study
found no correlation between the number of pod movements and
system operational efficiency, that is, a reduction in the number
of pod movements may not necessarily improve system opera-
tional efficiency. Specifically, compared with M1G, although M2G
increased by 4.43% on 𝑃 𝑂, it decreased 𝑇 𝑃 by 1.22%.
• OJOOPT can enhance warehouse operational efficiency and re-
duce its operational costs. The experimental results in Table 10
show that HADGS demonstrated a 10.75% increase in 𝑇 𝑃 and a
32.02% decrease in 𝑅𝐷 in large-scale instances compared to a
state-of-the-art sequential approach.
• OJOOPT can achieve the same throughput with fewer resources
(workstations). Warehouse managers have the flexibility to adjust
the number of workstations deployed based on customer orders,
further reducing warehouse operational costs. The experimental
results in Fig. 10(a) demonstrated that in large-scale instances,
the number of workstations required for HADGS to achieve the
same 𝑇 𝑃 was only 83% of SEQU.
5. Conclusion
This study investigated the online joint optimization for OA, PS, and
TA in RMFS during the order picking process. To enhance decision-
making efficiency, the study accounted for the impact of current de-
cisions on future decisions. A dynamic system model for RMFS was
established, alongside the development of a novel MILP model to
address critical challenges. To solve large-scale instances effectively, a
customized HADGS was devised.
The proposed model and approach were rigorously evaluated using
small- and large-scale instances within established dynamic systems.
16

[[PAGE 17 LEFT]]
Fig. 10. Influence of quan
Computational results revealed that, in small-scale instances, the pro-
posed M1G outperformed M2G by improving 𝑇 𝑃 , 𝑅𝐷, and 𝑂𝐷 by 1.22,
3.57, and 4.58%, respectively, although it reduced the performance of
𝑃 𝑂 by 4.43%. In large-scale instances, compared to SEQU, the proposed
HADGS improved the performance of 𝑇 𝑃 , 𝑅𝐷, 𝑂𝐷, and 𝑃 𝑂 by 10.75,
32.02, 48.09, and 43.61%, respectively. Furthermore, HADGS required
only 50% of the robots and 83% of the workstations used by SEQU
to achieve comparable throughput, indicating superior efficiency and
resource utilization in optimizing the RMFS order-picking process.
Future research can explore proactive–reactive scheduling frame-
works, which combine the predictive strengths of proactive scheduling
with the adaptability of reactive scheduling. By leveraging machine
learning algorithms and real-time simulation data, these frameworks
could significantly enhance resource allocation and task scheduling
in RMFS, addressing the challenges of online optimization problems.
Combining machine learning predictions with data generated from
real-time simulation can enhance the computational efficiency of real-
time decision-making processes [51]. Offline simulation learning offers
valuable insights for addressing online decision-making challenges.
However, its accuracy for offline RMFS prediction requires further val-
idation, positioning it as a focal point for future research. Additionally,
the Optimal Computing Budget Allocation (OCBA) algorithm [52,53]
has the potential to reduce simulation model runtime by selecting the
optimal parameter combinations and employing confidence interval
methods to identify the best parameter configurations. Consequently,
utilizing simulation optimization methods such as OCBA to test various
combinations of optimization methods is a promising direction for
future research.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Guoshuai Jiao: Writing – original draft, Software, Methodology,
Formal analysis. Min Huang: Supervision, Project administration, Con-
ceptualization. Yang Song: Supervision, Software, Conceptualization.
Haobin Li: Visualization, Supervision, Methodology. Xingwei Wang:
Software, Project administration, Conceptualization.
17

[[PAGE 17 RIGHT]]
f quantity of workstations.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing finan-
cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to
influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgments
This work is supported by the National Key R&D Program of China
(Grant No. 2021YFB3300900); the National Natural Science Foun-
dation of China Key Supported Project of the Major Research Plan
(Grant No. 92267206); the National Natural Science Foundation of
China (Grant No. 62032013 and No. 72071183); the Natural Sci-
ence Foundation of Shanxi Province, China (202203021211194); the
Taiyuan University of Science and Technology Scientific Research Ini-
tial Funding (W20242023). The authors also gratefully acknowledge
the helpful comments and suggestions from the anonymous reviewers,
which significantly helped to improve this paper.
Appendix A. Parameter information for the instance configura-
tion
Details of certain parameters for the instance configuration are
presented in Table 6, whereas Table A.1 includes additional parameter
information pertaining to inventory, order, workstation, and robot.
Appendix B. Modifications to EE-RAWSim-O and BLM
To compare HADGS with BLM, EE-RAWSim-O and BLM must be
modified accordingly:
(1) Modification to EE-RAWSim-O:
• Change the pod repositioning (i.e., PR) decision from Nearest to
Fixed, that is, the storage position of the pod is fixed.
• To avoid triggering replenishment operations, we set the initial
inventory to 0.95.
17

[[PAGE 18 LEFT]]
Table A.1
Some parameters’ information for the instance configuration.
Parameter
Initial inventory
Storage space for a pod
Inventory SKU size
Quantity of SKU types
SKU popularity/frequency
Quantity of order lines in the picking order
Quantity of items in the order line
Size of backlog of the repl. order
Order
Quantity of items in the repl. order
𝑟𝑜
1
𝑟𝑜
2
Time to pick an item
Time to handle an item at picking workstation
Workstation
Time to put an item on a pod
Repl. workstation’s capacity
Acceleration/deceleration
Maximum velocity
Robot
Turn time
Time for lifting and lowering the pod
• To avoid a large number of idle robots at initialization, we set the
number of robots to 30.
• Cease operation after the system has finished picking 100 orders
and save these orders as a static backlog to be optimized by BLM.
The remaining parameters in EE-RAWSim-O are set the same as
those in the large-scale instance.
(2) Modification to BLM:
• One order line may contain multiple units. Therefore, when se-
lecting pods, the pods must meet the order line and multiple units
in the order line.
• Inter-station scheduling of pods is not considered, i.e., the robot
must first transport the pod back to the storage area before it can
be transported to another workstation.
• To visually compare calculation time, the one hour stop criterion
is removed.
The warehouse layout and robot specifications required for BLM are
consistent with those in EE-RAWSim-O, where |𝑃 | = 1200, |𝑂| = 100,
|𝑅| = 30, and |𝑊 | = 12. The settings of other parameters involved in
running BLM are the same as those in [25].
Data availability
I have shared the link to my data/code at the manuscript.
References
[1] Schiffer M, Boysen N, Klein PS, Laporte G, Pavone M. Optimal picking policies
in e-commerce warehouses. Manag Sci 2022;68(10):7497–517.
[2] Boysen N, de Koster R. 50 years of warehousing research—An operations research
perspective. European J Oper Res 2025;320(3):449–64.
[3] Boysen N, De Koster R, Weidinger F. Warehousing in the e-commerce era: A
survey. European J Oper Res 2019;277(2):396–411.
[4] Polten L, Emde S. Scheduling automated guided vehicles in very narrow aisle
warehouses. Omega 2021;99:102204.
[5] Wurman PR, D’Andrea R, Mountz M. Coordinating hundreds of cooperative,
autonomous vehicles in warehouses. AI Mag 2008;29(1):9.
[6] Azadeh K, De Koster R, Roy D. Robotized and automated warehouse systems:
Review and recent developments. Transp Sci 2019;53(4):917–45.
[7] Merschformann M, Lamballais T, De Koster M, Suhl L. Decision rules for robotic
mobile fulfillment systems. Oper Res Perspect 2019;6:100128.
[8] Xie L, Thieme N, Krenzler R, Li H. Introducing split orders and optimizing
operational policies in robotic mobile fulfillment systems. European J Oper Res
2021;288(1):80–97.
[9] Jaghbeer Y, Hanson R, Johansson MI. Automated order picking systems and the
links between design and performance: a systematic literature review. Int J Prod
Res 2020;58(15):4489–505.
18

[[PAGE 18 RIGHT]]
Value
70%
100 slots 500 slots
Uniform distribution between 2 and 8
100 1000
Exponential distribution: 𝜆 = 0.5
Truncated normal distributions: 𝜇 = 1, 𝜎 = 1, 𝑚𝑖𝑛 = 1, 𝑚𝑎𝑥 = 5
Truncated normal distributions: 𝜇 = 1, 𝜎 = 1, 𝑚𝑖𝑛 = 1, 𝑚𝑎𝑥 = 5
200
Uniform distribution between 4 and 12
65%
85%
3 s
10 s
10 s
1000 slots
1 m/s2
1.5 m/s
2.5 s
2.2 s
[10] da Costa Barros ÍR, Nascimento TP. Robotic mobile fulfillment systems: A
survey on recent developments and research opportunities. Robot Auton Syst
2021;137:103729.
[11] Lamballais T, Roy D, De Koster RB. Estimating performance in a robotic mobile
fulfillment system. European J Oper Res 2017;256(3):976–90.
[12] Xiang X, Liu C, Miao L. Storage assignment and order batching problem in Kiva
mobile fulfilment system. Eng Optim 2018;50(11):1941–62.
[13] Weidinger F, Boysen N. Scattered storage: How to distribute stock keeping units
all around a mixed-shelves warehouse. Transp Sci 2018;52(6):1412–27.
[14] Yuan R, Graves SC, Cezik T. Velocity-Based storage assignment in Semi-
Automated storage systems. Prod Oper Manage 2019;28(2):354–73.
[15] Kim HJ, Pais C, Shen ZJM. Item assignment problem in a robotic mobile
fulfillment system. IEEE Trans Autom Sci Eng 2020;17(4):1854–67.
[16] Li X, Hua G, Huang A, Sheu J-B, Cheng T, Huang F. Storage assignment policy
with awareness of energy consumption in the Kiva mobile fulfilment system.
Transp Res E: Logist Transp Rev 2020;144:102158.
[17] Jiang M, Leung K, Lyu Z, Huang GQ. Picking-replenishment synchronization
for robotic forward-reserve warehouses. Transp Res E: Logist Transp Rev
2020;144:102138.
[18] Zhang J, Zhang N, Tian L, Zhou Z, Wang P. Robots’ picking efficiency and
pickers’ energy expenditure: the item storage assignment policy in robotic mobile
fulfillment system. Comput Ind Eng 2023;176:108918.
[19] Boysen N, Briskorn D, Emde S. Parts-to-picker based order process-
ing in a rack-moving mobile robots environment. European J Oper Res
2017;262(2):550–62.
[20] Yang X, Hua G, Hu L, Cheng T, Huang A. Joint optimization of order sequencing
and rack scheduling in the robotic mobile fulfilment system. Comput Oper Res
2021;135:105467.
[21] Valle CA, Beasley JE. Order allocation, rack allocation and rack sequencing for
pickers in a mobile rack environment. Comput Oper Res 2021;125:105090.
[22] Qin H, Xiao J, Ge D, Xin L, Gao J, He S, Hu H, Carlsson JG. JD. com: Operations
research algorithms drive intelligent warehouse robots to work. INFORMS J Appl
Anal 2022;52(1):42–55.
[23] Zhang S, Zhuge D, Tan Z, Zhen L. Order picking optimization in a robotic mobile
fulfillment system. Expert Syst Appl 2022;209:118338.
[24] Zhuang Y, Zhou Y, Yuan Y, Hu X, Hassini E. Order picking optimization with
rack-moving mobile robots and multiple workstations. European J Oper Res
2022;300(2):527–44.
[25] Teck S, Dewil R. A bi-level memetic algorithm for the integrated order and
vehicle scheduling in a RMFS. Appl Soft Comput 2022;121:108770.
[26] Teck S, Dewil R. Optimization models for scheduling operations in robotic mobile
fulfillment systems. Appl Math Model 2022;111:270–87.
[27] Wang B, Yang X, Qi M. Order and rack sequencing in a robotic mobile fulfillment
system with multiple picking stations. Flex Serv Manuf J 2023;35:509–47.
[28] Jiao G, Li H, Huang M. Online joint optimization of pick order assignment
and pick pod selection in robotic mobile fulfillment systems. Comput Ind Eng
2023;175:108856.
[29] Justkowiak JE, Pesch E. A column generation driven heuristic for order-
scheduling and rack-sequencing in robotic mobile fulfillment systems. Omega
2023;120:102897.
[30] Justkowiak JE, Pesch E. Stronger mixed-integer programming-formulations for
order-and rack-sequencing in robotic mobile fulfillment systems. European J Oper
Res 2023;305(3):1063–78.
[31] Subramanian SP, Chandrasekar SK. Simultaneous allocation and sequencing
of orders for robotic mobile fulfillment system using reinforcement learning
algorithm. Expert Syst Appl 2024;239:122262.
18

[[PAGE 19 LEFT]]
[32] Zhao Z, Cheng J, Liang J, Liu S, Zhou M, Al-Turki Y. Order picking optimization
in smart warehouses with human-robot collaboration. IEEE Internet Things J
2024;11(9):16314–24.
[33] Cheng B, Wang L, Tan Q, Zhou M. A deep reinforcement learning hyper-
heuristic to solve order batching problem with mobile robots. Appl Intell
2024;54(9):6865–87.
[34] Yang X, Hua G, Zhang L, Cheng TCE, Choi T-M. Joint optimization of order-and
rack-scheduling in KIVA picking systems. Omega 2025;135:103286.
[35] Zou B, Gong Y, Xu X, Yuan Z. Assignment rules in robotic mobile fulfilment
systems for online retailers. Int J Prod Res 2017;55(20):6175–92.
[36] Yoshitake H, Kamoshida R, Nagashima Y. New automated guided vehicle system
using real-time holonic scheduling for warehouse picking. IEEE Robot Autom
Lett 2019;4(2):1045–52.
[37] Gharehgozli A, Zaerpour N. Robot scheduling for pod retrieval in a robotic
mobile fulfillment system. Transp Res E: Logist Transp Rev 2020;142:102087.
[38] Li Z, Barenji AV, Jiang J, Zhong RY, Xu G. A mechanism for scheduling multi
robot intelligent warehouse system face with dynamic demand. J Intell Manuf
2020;31:469–80.
[39] Li K, Liu T, Kumar PR, Han X. A reinforcement learning-based hyper-heuristic for
AGV task assignment and route planning in parts-to-picker warehouses. Transp
Res E: Logist Transp Rev 2024;185:103518.
[40] Merschformann M, Xie L, Erdmann D. Multi-agent path finding with kinematic
constraints for robotic mobile fulfillment systems. 2017, ArXiv E-Prints.
[41] Lee CK, Lin B, Ng K, Lv Y, Tai W. Smart robotic mobile fulfillment system with
dynamic conflict-free strategies considering cyber-physical integration. Adv Eng
Inform 2019;42:100998.
[42] Li J, Tinka A, Kiesel S, Durham JW, Kumar TS, Koenig S. Lifelong multi-agent
path finding in large-scale warehouses. In: Proceedings of the AAAI conference
on artificial intelligence. Vol. 35, 2021, p. 11272–81.
19

[[PAGE 19 RIGHT]]
[43] Sun Y, Zhao N, Lodewijks G. An autonomous vehicle interference-free scheduling
approach on bidirectional paths in a robotic mobile fulfillment system. Expert
Syst Appl 2021;178:114932.
[44] Luo L, Zhao N, Zhu Y, Sun Y. A* guiding DQN algorithm for automated guided
vehicle pathfinding problem of robotic mobile fulfillment systems. Comput Ind
Eng 2023;178:109112.
[45] Weidinger F, Boysen N, Briskorn D. Storage assignment with rack-moving mobile
robots in KIVA warehouses. Transp Sci 2018;52(6):1479–95.
[46] Roy D, Nigam S, de Koster R, Adan I, Resing J. Robot-storage zone assignment
strategies in mobile fulfillment systems. Transp Res E: Logist Transp Rev
2019;122:119–42.
[47] Zhuang Y, Zhou Y, Hassini E, Yuan Y, Hu X. Rack retrieval and repositioning
optimization problem in robotic mobile fulfillment systems. Transp Res E: Logist
Transp Rev 2022;167:102920.
[48] Boysen N, Schwerdfeger S, Stephan K. A review of synchronization problems in
parts-to-picker warehouses. European J Oper Res 2023;307(3):1374–90.
[49] Merschformann M, Xie L, Li H. RAWSim-O: A simulation framework for robotic
mobile fulfillment systems. Logist Res 2018;11:8.
[50] Hart PE, Nilsson NJ, Raphael B. A formal basis for the heuristic determination
of minimum cost paths. IEEE Trans Syst Sci Cybern 1968;4(2):100–7.
[51] Goodwin T, Xu J, Celik N, Chen CH. Real-time digital twin-based optimization
with predictive simulation learning. J Simul 2024;18(1):47–64.
[52] Lee LH, Chen Ch, Chew EP, Li J, Pujowidianto NA, Zhang S. A review of optimal
computing budget allocation algorithms for simulation optimization problem. Int
J Oper Res (Taichung) 2010;7(2):19–31.
[53] Chen CH, Lee LH. Stochastic simulation optimization: an optimal computing
budget allocation, vol. 1, World scientific; 2011.
19