[[PAGE 1 LEFT]]
Contents lists available
European Journal of Op
journal homepage: www.els
Production, Manufacturing, Transportation and Logistics
Introducing split orders and optimizing ope
mobile fulfillment systems
Lin Xie a , ∗, Nils Thieme a, Ruslan Krenzler a, Hanyi Li b
a Leuphana University of Lüneburg, Universitätallee 1, 21335 Lüneburg, Germany
b Beijing Hanning Intelligent Tech Co., Ltd, Room 107–108, No.9 Kexing Road, Fengtai, Beijing, C
a r t i c l e i n f o a b s t r a c t
Article history: In robotic mobile fulfillment sy
Received 26 December 2019 pick the ordered items. Instead,
Accepted 17 May 2020 inventory area to picking station
Available online 26 May 2020
items are transported to the pac
Keywords: ers and improves the picking pro
logistics pods to stations and orders to s
MIP models research for an RMFS with mult
Integrated operational optimization tics. Instead, we present a new
Robotic mobile fulfillment systems performance even more, we ext
Split orders lowed to be picked at different s
on split orders in an RMFS. And
ent performance metrics, such a
compare the results of our mod
simulation framework RAWSim-
lowing split orders further impr
order to reduce the computation
This is an open access artic
1. Introduction 2
p
The most important and time-consuming task in a warehouse c
is the collection of items from their storage locations to fufill cus- su
tomer orders. The process is called order picking , which may con- a
stitute about 50–65% of the operating costs. Therefore, the order sh
picking is considered as the highest-priority area for productivity d
improvements (see De Koster, Le-Duc, & Roodbergen, 2007 ). Due o
to the increasingly fast-paced economy, it is becoming more and su
more important that the orders are processed in a short time win- te
dow. ti
In a traditional manual order picking system (also called a p
picker-to-parts system ), the pickers spend 70% of their working time p
on the tasks of search and travel (see Tompkins, 2010 ; for an ro
overview of manual order picking systems see De Koster et al., v
a
to
∗ Corresponding author. p
E-mail addresses: xie@leuphana.de (L. Xie), nils.thieme@stud.leuphana.de (N.
e
Thieme), ruslan.krenzler@leuphana.de (R. Krenzler), hli@hanningzn.com (H. Li). a
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2020.05.032
0377-2217/© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article u

[[PAGE 1 RIGHT]]
lable at ScienceDirect
Operational Research
ww.elsevier.com/locate/ejor
operational policies in robotic
jing, China
nt systems, human pickers don’t go to the inventory area to search for and
stead, robots carry shelves (called “pods”) containing ordered items from the
ations. At the picking stations, pickers put ordered items into totes; then these
e packing stations. This type of warehousing system relieves the human pick-
ng process. In this paper, we concentrate on decisions about the assignment of
s to stations to fulfill picking for each incoming customer’s order. In previous
multiple picking stations, these decisions are made sequentially with heuris-
new MIP-model to integrate both decision problems. To improve the system
we extend our model by splitting orders. This means parts of an order are al-
rent stations. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this is the first publication
And we prove the computational complexity of our models. We analyze differ-
uch as pile-on, pod-station visits, robot moving distance and throughput. We
models in different instances with the sequential method in our open-source
WSim-O. The integration of the decisions brings better performances, and al-
improves the performances (for example: increasing throughput by 46%). In
tational time for a real-world application, we have proposed a heuristic.
© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V.
article under the CC BY license. ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ )
2007 ). The unproductive searching and traveling times require the
picker-to-parts system to have a large workforce, especially for
companies which have millions of small items in large warehouses,
such as e-commerce companies like Amazon or retailers like Zara
and Walmart, which provide both brick-and-mortar and online
shops. Dependent on the type of retailers, they are facing many
diverse customer orders each day (both single-line and multi-line
orders). Also, the workforce of such companies is under high pres-
sure due to the long traveling time (see Wulfraat, 2012 ). Kiva Sys-
tems LLC, now Amazon Robotics LLC, came up with a unique solu-
tion to avoid the unproductive times of human pickers in picker-to-
parts systems; therefore, this solution accelerates the order picking
process (see Wurman, D’Andrea, & Mountz, 2008 ). In such system,
robots are sent to carry storage units, so-called ”pods,” from the in-
ventory area and bring them to human operators, who work only
at picking stations. At the stations, the items are picked according
to the customers’ orders. After picking, the robot transports the
pod back to the storage area. There are also some other suppli-
ers of such systems, such as Scallog, Swisslog (KUKA), GreyOrange
and Hitachi (see Banker, 2016 ). All of these systems may differ
rticle under the CC BY license. ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ )

[[PAGE 2 LEFT]]
Table 1
Literatur overview in an RMFS.
decision problems publications
Strategic level :
storage area dimensioning, Lamballais, Roy, and
workstation placement Lamballais, Roy, and
Tactical level :
number of robots Yuan, Dong, and Li (
Zou, Xu, De Koster e
Operational level :
decisions for each incoming order about
which robot carries Zhang, Yang, and We
which pod Boysen et al. (2017)
along which path Cohen, Uras, and Koe
Merschformann et a
to which station
decisions about where to
put the used pod back to Merschformann (201
Weidinger, Boysen, a
Krenzler, Xie, and Li
decision rules Wurman et al. (2008
Merschformann et a
simulation Merschformann et a
demonstration Xie et al. (2019)
performance characteristics Hanson, Medbo, and
technically in certain aspects, such as the lifting mechanism, but
they share the same principle of the system (see the description
of such system in Section 2 ). This system is called robotic mobile
fulfillment system (RMFS).
1.1. Research background
In an RMFS environment, various optimization and allocation
problems have to be solved in real time. An overview of an
RMFS and other automated warehousing systems can be found in
Azadeh, de Koster, and Roy (2017) and Boysen, de Koster, and Wei-
dinger (2018) . Here we give you an short literature overview of
RMFSs in Table 1 , which also includes new researches that are not
listed in both overview papers. The classification of three levels of
problems is based on Merschformann, Lamballais, de Koster, and
Suhl (2019) .
In this work, we concentrate on operational problems. As
shown in Table 1 , there are usually the following decision prob-
lems in the order picking process in an RMFS (described in
Wurman et al., 2008 and Merschformann, Xie, & Li, 2018 ): Each
time a new order arrives, we have to decide which robot carries
which pod along which path to which station to fulfill picking. So
the order is first assigned to a station ( pick order assignment , in
short: POA), and then one or several pods are assigned to that sta-
tion to fulfill that order ( pick pod selection , in short: PPS). Robots
are assigned to deliver pods to that station ( robot task allocation ),
while path planning plans the paths for the robots. After a pod is
finished at a picking station, we have to decide where to put it
back in the inventory area ( pod repositioning ). And there are two
decisions for the replenishment process, namely replenishment or-
der assignment and replenishment pod station. Table 2 describes
the operational problems in an RMFS.
1.2. Contributions and paper structure
We concentrate in this paper on the picking process, especially
POA and PPS. In the studies of the throughput performance of deci-
sion rules for multiple online decision problems in Merschformann
et al. (2019) , they concluded that POA should be paid more at-
tention in the literature and practice, since it affects the through-
put performance of RMFS the most. In Boysen et al. (2018) , they
mentioned that the existing research into order picking is under

[[PAGE 2 RIGHT]]
y, and De Koster (2017) ,
y, and De Koster (2019)
nd Li (2016) , Yuan and Gong (2017) ,
ster et al. (2018) , Otten, Krenzler, Xie, Daduna, and Kruse (2019)
nd Weng (2019) , Roy, Nigam, de Koster, Adan, and Resing (2019)
2017)
nd Koenig (2015) , Cohen, Wagner, Kumar, Choset, and Koenig (2017) ,
n et al. (2017)
n (2017) ,
sen, and Briskorn (2018) ,
and Li (2018)
(2008) ,
n et al. (2019)
n et al. (2018)
9)
o, and Johansson (2018)
ut Table 2
n The operational decision problems in an RMFS.
le Decision problem Description
Order Assignment:
Replenishment Order Assignment (ROA) assignment of replenishment
orders to replenishment stations
Pick Order Assignment (POA) assignment of pick orders to
picking stations
n
Task Creation:
n Replenishment Pod Selection (RPS) selection of pods that will
n move to a replenishment station
i- to store replenishment items
Pick Pod Selection (PPS) selection of pods to use for
of
picking the pick orders assigned
ot at a picking station
of Pod Repositioning (PR) assignment of an available
d storage location to a pod that
is not in the inventory area
Task Allocation (TA) assignment of generated tasks for
As
robots in RPS, PPS, PR and
b- additional tasks such as idling
n Path Planning (PP) planning of the paths for the
h robots to execute
es
So
n the assumption that orders have already been assigned to stations
a- (in other words: without optimization of POA), such as in Boysen,
ts Briskorn, and Emde (2017) .
), Due to the importance of POA, POA and PPS should be opti-
is mized together; however, the complexity is increased due to con-
it sidering all possible pods and multiple picking stations (see ex-
wo amples in Section 2.2 ). Therefore, the authors in Wurman et al.
r- (2008) and Merschformann et al. (2019) provided heuristics to
es solve POA and PPS sequentially, first POA and then PPS. We list
here the contributions of our work:
• We develop a new mathematical model to solve integrated POA
and PPS for multiple stations.
ly • We extend our integrated model to allow split orders, so not
i- all parts of an order are picked at the same station. To the best
n of the authors’ knowledge, this is the first publication on split
t- orders in an RMFS. The literature review of split orders can be
h- found in Section 2.3 .
ey • We develop a heuristic for our new models to solve a real-
er world instance.

[[PAGE 3 LEFT]]
Retrieval
Storage
Storage
Replenishment Retri
Retrieval
Order picki
Fig. 1. The central proce
Table 3
Terms related to orders. a
Term Description R
SKU stock keeping unit
order line one SKU with the ordered quantity
item a physical unit of one SKU
pick order a set of order lines from a customer’s order
split order a pick order that is separated into several parts
replenishment order a number of physical units of one SKU
backlog all unfulfilled orders
Table 4
The central components of an RMFS.
Component Description
pods movable shelves, on which inventory is stored
storage area the inventory area where the pods are stored
workstations:
picking stations where pickers pick the order items
packing stations where packers pack the pick order items and
the split orders are consolidated
replenishment stations where replenishment items are stored to pods
robots moving underneath pods and carrying them to
workstations
conveyors transporting the pick orders between picking and
packing stations to finish packing
• We extend our open-source simulation framework RAWSim-O
to evaluate the decisions made based on our new models.
This paper is organized as follows: In the next section, we de-
scribe the RMFS and operational decision problems in detail. Af-
ter that, we will describe our idea of integrated POA and PPS and
split orders with examples. In Section 3 , a mathematical model of
integrated POA and PPS and the extensions with split orders are
2
described. We present simulation evaluations in Section 4.2 . Fi-
nally, we draw conclusions and give pointers for further research
in Section 5 .
a
c
2. Problem description with examples
a
p
In this section, we first describe the RMFS, and the decision
a
problems in an RMFS. After that, we will describe our idea of inte-
b
grated POA and PPS and split orders with examples.
in
d
2.1. RMFS b
t
Firstly, we define some terms related to orders before explain- fi
ing the processes in an RMFS in Table 3 . o
The central components of an RMFS are listed in Table 4 . w

[[PAGE 3 RIGHT]]
Storage
Retrieval Order picking
Order packing
der picking
Transport to packing
sta(cid:2)on
l process of an RMFS.
The pods are transported by robots between the inventory area
and workstations. Fig. 1 shows the central process in a simplified
RMFS from replenishment to packing:
• Retrieval process : After the arrival of a replenishment order,
robots carry selected pods to a replenishment station to store
units in pods. Similarly, after receiving a pick order, robots carry
selected pods to a picking station, where the items for the order
lines are picked. Note that in order to fulfill pick orders, several
pods may be needed, since orders may have multiple lines. The
items in (parts of) an order are picked into a tote.
• Storage process : After a pod has been processed at one or more
stations, it is brought back to a storage location in the storage
area. The retrieval and storage processes are based on Hoffman
et al. (2013) .
• Transport to packing stations : Once a tote is filled, it is trans-
ported by a conveyor to packing stations for packing.
• Packing process : If all items in an order are contained in a tote,
packers are prompted by computer to select the correct-sized
box and pack the items. A split order has items delivered via
multiple totes, since the items are picked by different pickers
(picking stations). In this case, packers first sort items from a
tote to a correct-sized box on the shelf so that the items from
that order are grouped together. Packers are prompted by com-
puter to put the box for the split order on one given position
on the shelf, and later to find the box in the shelf to put the
rest of that order into the box. We use the term shelf to clar-
ify that they might be different to the pods, since they do not
need to be moved. Once all the items of a split order are in
a box, the packer packs the box, and a space is open for the
next split order. This packing process is based on the packing
process in Amazon (see Toister, 2017 ).
2.2. POA and PPS
We concentrate in this paper on the online decisions for POA
and PPS for multiple stations. For better clarification, online in our
case does not mean that we consider orders that have arrived over
a number of time periods. In order to have enough optimization
potential, we assume that we know all orders in advance (for ex-
ample, we gather all orders that have come in the last hour in the
backlog). But our methods can support the decisions for the new
incoming orders in each period (see Section 4.3 ). Instead, online
decisions in our case means that we have to make decisions for
both problems for each new period t . Period t − 1 is changed to
t if some jobs are finished at the stations while there are unful-
filled orders in the backlog. Also, situations such as the inventory
of pods and the positions of pods in the queues at stations can and
will change from t − 1 to t . They are important for the POA and PPS

[[PAGE 4 LEFT]]
decisions and are hard to calculate exactly in advance, since errors
and delays in previous time periods can affect them. For these rea-
sons, we make the decisions for the integrated POA and PPS just
before the respective time period starts. This allows us to react to
the current situation and take errors or delays from previous pe-
riods into account. Furthermore, we test our results in a simula-
tion framework, which provides us with the actual information for
each time period. In the literature, the online decisions for POA and
PPS are usually solved sequentially for multiple stations (first POA,
then PPS; see Wurman et al., 2008, Merschformann et al., 2019 ).
The sequential approach limits the information for both decisions.
Therefore, the decisions for POA and PPS should be made simulta-
neously to achieve optimum performance, so we can use informa-
tions about all pods and orders, including those that are assigned
to stations and are unassigned. However, the complexity of solving
integrated POA and PPS is increased, and the integrated problem is
NP-hard (see the proof in Section 3 ). We will describe the differ-
ence between sequential and integrated problems with Example 1 .
To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this is the first publication
about the integrated POA and PPS for multiple stations.
Objective Before we explain POA and PPS with examples, we
want to firstly explain our objective of POA and PPS. An RMFS
with higher throughput is better. Based on the performance anal-
ysis of decision rules for multiple online decision problems in
Merschformann et al. (2019) , they found that a high pile-on (the
number of picks per handled pod) and a short distance traveled by
robots together is a indicator for the success of a decision rule ap-
plied in an RMFS (to achieve high throughput). In order to achieve
that, we aim at minimizing the number of visits by pods to sta-
tions (in short: pod-station visits ) for each decision of the POA and
PPS problems. If fewer pod-station visits are needed for the given
orders, a shorter distance traveled by the robots can be achieved,
and higher pile-on can be expected to finish the given orders. Fur-
thermore, a smaller number of pod-station visits also causes fewer
changes of pods, and the waiting time of human pickers between
changes of pods is reduced (see Boysen et al., 2017 ; they also min-
imize pod-station visits for the assignment of pods to orders). An-
other time component of human pickers is retrieving the items
from their shelves, which is considered to be fixed. Due to the re-
duced waiting time, more orders can be handled within a mini-
mal time. So, this matches the suggestion in Van Gils, Ramaekers,
Caris, and de Koster (2018) for an efficient order picking in picker-
to-parts systems.
Example 1. Fig. 2 (a) illustrates a small problem to fulfill four or-
ders 1, 2, 3 and 4. The different colors represent different SKUs
(stock keeping units). For simplicity, the quantity of each SKU in
the orders is one. We have in total two picking stations. There is
two empty totes at each station. In this example we assume that
each tote can hold three items. Pod 1 is currently at station 1 and
pod 2 at station 2, while pods 3 and 4 are in the storage area.
Sequential POA and PPS In the sequential POA and PPS, we use
the same decision rule, Pod-Match , as in Merschformann et al.
(2019) , which assigns the orders from the backlog to a station so
that the items for the orders best match the pods that are already
assigned to that station. Note that there is another more common
decision rule in Merschformann et al. (2019) (called Common-Lines )
and Wurman et al. (2008) , grouping similar orders at picking sta-
tions in POA. However, the decision rule Pod-Match for POA is
shown to perform better in Merschformann et al. (2019) , since this
rule uses information about assigned pods at stations in addition
to information about orders in the backlog.
In Example 1 , in the POA problem we assign orders 2 and 3 to
station 1 ( Fig. 2 (b)), since two of their items can be picked from
pod 1 – the pod that is already at station 1. For the same reason,
we assign orders 1 and 4 to station 2. To fulfill the assigned or-

[[PAGE 4 RIGHT]]
rs ders, both pods from the storage area, pods 3 and 4, are needed
a- at each station. After items from pods 1 and 2 are picked, they
st are returned to the storage area. In the PPS, pod 3 visits station 1,
to while pod 4 visits station 2 ( Fig. 2 (c)). After picking in both sta-
e- tions, pods 3 and 4 switch stations so that the last item of each
a- order can be picked ( Fig. 2 (d)). In total, 6 pod-station visits were
or necessary to fulfill both orders in this example, therefore the pile-
d on can be calculated as 12 picks/6 pods = 2 picks/pod.
A, Integrated PPS and POA In the integrated PPS and POA approach,
). we have more information while assigning orders to stations, since
s. pods and orders are assigned to stations at the same time. This
a- allows us to find optimal solutions that might not be intuitive at
a- first glance and would not be found by the sequential POA and PPS.
d Note that we use information about all pods, including assigned
ng ones at stations and unassigned ones in the storage area, but this
is way increases the complexity to solve both problems.
r- Using the same initial state as in the previous explanation of
1 . the sequential POA and PPS in Example 1 (see Fig. 3 (a)), we in-
n tegrate these two decisions and assign orders and pods such that
the number of pod-station visits is minimized. This leads to the
we assignment of orders 1 and 2 and pod 3 to station 1, and orders 3
FS and 4 and pod 4 to station 2 (see Fig. 3 (b) and 3 (c)). This results
l- in a pile-on of 3 (12 picks/4 pods) compared to 2 (12 picks/6 pods)
n in the sequential example and only requires 4 pod-station visits to
he fulfill all orders instead of 6.
by Based on this example, we can see the benefit of integrating
p- POA and PPS by using information about the inventory of all pods
ve in these decisions. Therefore, we present a mathematical model in
a- this paper that integrates POA and PPS for multiple stations and
d takes information about the inventory of all pods into account.
n
d,
2.3. Allowing split orders in our integrated approach
r-
er
In our integrated approach mentioned above, an order is only
n
allowed to be assigned to a single station. The second contribution
n-
of this paper is to allow split orders in our integrated approach.
n-
And we also prove that the models to allow split orders are NP-
ms
hard (see Section 3 ). A split order means that we divide an order
e-
into two or more parts for picking (perhaps at different stations). A
i-
similar term, “splitting orders,” can be traced back to 1979, when
s,
it was used by Armstrong, Cook, and Saipe (1979) . They used split
r-
orders to keep batch sizes constant in batch picking. In Il-Choe and
Sharp (1991) and De Koster, Le-Duc, and Zaerpour (2012) split or-
r- ders are used as part of the zoning in traditional picker-to-parts
Us warehouses, in which a storage area is split into multiple parts
n (called zones), each with a different order picker. When an order
is contains several SKUs that are stored in different zones, the SKUs
at for the order are picked separately in each zone and merged later
d for shipping. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this is the first
publication on split orders in an RMFS.
According to the following example, we expect allowing split
se
orders in an RMFS provide a better solution.
al.
so Example 2. Fig. 4 illustrates the decision problem when assign-
dy ing orders and pods to two picking stations. We have one empty
n tote at each station, while we have two identical orders 1 and 2 in
s ) the backlog (in Fig. 4 (a)). We assume that each tote can hold two
a- items. These two orders contain SKUs shown in blue and orange.
is These two SKUs are located in two different pods, namely pod 1
is with the orange SKU and pod 2 with the blue SKU. Fig. 4 (b) shows
n the optimal solution to the problem without split orders. We need
pod 1 to visit station 1 and pod 2 to visit station 2; after that, pod
to 2 visits station 1 and pod 1 visits station 2. In total, we need four
m visits by pods to the stations to fulfill both orders. Instead, if we
n, split orders 1 and 2 into blue and orange parts (see Fig. 4 (c)), the
r- blue ones can be picked from pod 2 at station 2, while the orange

[[PAGE 5 LEFT]]
orders
11 22 33 44
pod 3 pod 1 station 1
pod 4 pod 2 station 2
(a) Initial state
2 3
pod 1 pod 3 station 1
1 4
pod 2 pod 4 station 2
(c) PPS I: pod 3 → station 1, pod 4 →
station 2
Fig. 2. An example for the sequential POA
ones can be picked from pod 1 at station 1. This allows both orders
to be fulfilled with only two visits by pods to the stations instead lo
of four. Note that in this paper we don’t use one empty tote for d
exactly one order, but for several items, to enable comparison be- in
tween the solutions with and without split orders. We will explain a
more about this in Section 3.1 in the paragraph Capacity of a pick-
ing station . d
d
However, the split orders might need additional consolidation
o
time in packing stations, where customers’ orders are packed and
p
ready for shipping. We ignore this time in our study, we will de-
o
scribe that in Section 3.1 .
st
sp
3. Mathematical model
In this section, we describe the assumptions in Section 3.1 be-
fore we present our mathematical model of integrated POA and
PPS (we call it the integrated model ), and extend it with two vari-
ants of allowing split orders.
3.1. Assumption
SKUs All different SKUs in orders are available in pods. We as- in
sume that the quantity of the order line for each SKU is one. This a
assumption is consistent with common practice, since the number c
of items per order line is low. If a pod contains a SKU, then we in
assume that there are enough items in that pod to fulfill all orders c
for that SKU. th

[[PAGE 5 RIGHT]]
2 3
pod 3 pod 1 station 1
1 4
pod 4 pod 2 station 2
(b) POA: orders 2 and 3 → station 1,
orders 1 and 4 → station 2
3
pod 1 pod 4 station 1
1
pod 2 pod 3 station 2
→ (d) PPS II: pod 4 → station 1, pod 3 →
station 2
al POA and PPS (best viewed in color).
Pregenerated orders We store pregenerated orders in the back-
log before the beginning of optimization, so we get the same or-
ders for testing different approaches. From time to time, no new
incoming orders are stored to the backlog for the optimization. Our
approaches terminate if the backlog is empty.
Split order Splitting an order means separating the original or-
der into two or more parts (up to the number of SKUs in the or-
der). If an order is not split, we ensure that all order lines in that
order are assigned for picking at the same station (within a time
period). If an order is split, this constraint is relaxed by allowing
order lines for that order to be assigned to more than one picking
station or more than one time period. There are two variants of a
split order:
split among stations: all order lines for a pick order are as-
signed in the same period but may be assigned to different
picking stations (see Example 1 in Section 1 )
split over timesteps: order lines for a pick order may be as-
signed in different time periods and to different picking sta-
tions (see an example in Appendix A )
Capacity of a picking station Commonly, the capacity of a pick-
ing station is defined as the number of orders that can be handled
at a time ( order capacity ). According to Wulfraat (2012) , the typi-
cal station can support 6 to 12 orders to be picked at a time. The
introductory example of split orders shows that traditional order
capacity is incompatible with split orders, since simply counting
the number of assigned orders does not work anymore when only

[[PAGE 6 LEFT]]
Fig. 3. Same example as in Fig. 2 (see Fig. 3 (a)), but the decision is made by
parts of an order are assigned to the station. Instead, we introduce
in this paper a new way to define the capacity of a picking station
– limited by the number of items to be handled at a time – that
works for both, whole orders and split orders. We call this type
of capacity item capacity . Another advantage of item capacity is a
fairer distribution of workload among all stations, since the num-
ber of assigning items equals the number of picks. Note that the
number of items in each order differs and reflects the number of
picks.
Capacity of a packing station Orders that are not split can be
packed directly by packers as soon as they arrive at the packing
stations. Split orders require storage space on shelves at packing
stations to wait until all parts of the order are picked. Once all
parts of a split order are picked, it can be packed and one space
on the shelf becomes free for the next split order. The capacity
of a packing station is therefore defined as the number of shelves
multiplied by the number of boxes which can be stored on a shelf.
We set the total capacity of all packing stations to a parameter C ,
and we assume it is large enough for all necessary split orders
in this paper. This assumption is supported by the calculation in
Appendix B . In our calculation, up to 78 split orders can be stored
on a shelf. And usually, in practice, there is more than one packing
station. If more split orders are required, then additional shelves
can be installed at packing stations. However, the situation might
differ from one company to another. Therefore, our model can be

[[PAGE 6 RIGHT]]
ade by the integrated POA and PPS (see Fig. 3 (b) and 3 (c)) (best viewed in color).
ce easily extended to support a limited packing capacity, as shown in
n Section 4.3 .
at Conveyor We assume that the conveyors between picking and
pe packing stations are long enough to temporarily store orders and
a parts of them. The conveyors serve as a buffer to synchronize the
m- picking and packing stations.
he Consolidation time for split orders We consider the consolidation
of time as the additional time for the packer to pack the split orders.
Based on the packing process in Amazon (described at the end of
be Section 2.1 , and the part of Fig. 4 on the right-hand side), shelves
ng are used in the packing station to temporarily store split orders.
ng Each time a part of a split order arrives, the packer puts this part
ll into the corresponding box on the shelf. Once all items of the split
ce order are in the box, the packer packs the box, and a space is open
ty for the next split order. This process is almost the same as the pro-
es cess for a normal order, i.e. folding a new box, putting all items in
lf. the box and packing it. The additional time for packers caused by
C , the split orders is the searching time for the correct split-order box
rs on the shelf, which we consider to be minimal since the position of
n the box is stored on the computer. Therefore, we ignore this time
d in our study.
ng Maximal order size We assume that every order in the backlog
es can fit into some picking station. That means the maximal item ca-
ht pacity of the largest picking station is not smaller than the number
be of items of the largest order.

[[PAGE 7 LEFT]]
orders
11 22
pod 1
pod 2
(a) Initial
1
pod 1 ssttaattiioonn 11
2
pod 2 ssttaattiioonn 22
1
pod 2 ssttaattiioonn 11
2
pod 1 ssttaattiioonn 22
(b) Without split orders: first, pod 1 →
station 1 and pod 2 → station 2 (upper
part); then, pod 2 → station 1 and pod
1 → station 2 (lower part)
Fig. 4. A solution for without and with sp
Queue There is a queue at each station (for example, in Fig. 3 (b), p
pod 1 and pod 3 are in the queue at station (1). The space in a p
queue is limited. Each time a pod leaves the queue, one pod can fr
be added at the end of the queue. Pods leave a station once their th
inventory cannot be used anymore to fulfill any further assigned c
orders. If pod 1 leaves the queue, pod 3 moves forwards to the st
picker. a
Period Once there is enough free item capacity at a station and e
there are unfilled orders in the backlog, the time period is changed d
from t to t + 1 for all t ≥ 1. The required amount of free item ca- ti
pacity is defined as the capacity that is needed to fit the smallest
available order. In t = 0 , no orders are assigned or picked at any sp

[[PAGE 7 RIGHT]]
ssttaattiioonn 11
ssttaattiioonn 22
nitial state
1/2
pod 1 ssttaattiioonn 11
1/2
pod 2 ssttaattiioonn 22
(c) With split orders: pod 1 → station
→ 1 and pod 2 → station 2
per
od
with split orders (best viewed in color).
picking station. All pods are in the storage area, so there are no
pods waiting at picking stations. At t = 1 we start to assign orders
from the backlog and pods to picking stations. Each time t changes,
the current situation in the warehouse (such as which pods are
currently in storage or on their way to stations, free capacity at
stations, inventory of pods, decreasing order backlog) is updated
and used to compute the next decisions. This way, we can handle
errors or delays in the execution of previous decisions. The model
described in this section is solved in each period t using informa-
tion about the current state of the warehouse.
Shared storage policy Items of the same SKU are randomly
spread over multiple pods. In Boysen et al. (2017) , where this pol-

[[PAGE 8 LEFT]]
icy is called mixed-shelves storage , the authors showed that this
policy is efficient.
Pods selection Our model computes the smallest possible set of
pods to fulfill all assigned orders at each station in each period,
without considering the distance between the selected pods and
picking stations.
Sequencing of pods During each period t we need to know the
sequence of pods at each station. As our model only calculates the
optimal sets of pods for each station, we use the following policy
to create a sequence of pods: Robots begin immediately to carry
all assigned pods to the respective stations and the sequencing of
pods is decided by the order of their arrival at the station. This
ensures that station idle times are kept at a minimum.
Without replenishment We assume that there is enough inven-
tory for all orders, so no replenishment is required.
3.2. Integrated model
Firstly, we define the notation for the following model.
Sets :
P Set of pods
S Set of currently available picking stations
P
P s
i
S KU
S
S
e
e
t
t
o
o
f
f
p
p
o
o
d
d
s
s
P
P
s
i
S K
⊆
U
P
⊆ P
tha
th
t
a
a
t
r e
in
c
c
u
lu
rr
d
e
e
n t
S
l
K
y
U
a t
i
station s
O Set of current orders in the backlog
I o Set of SKUs I o ⊆ I that constitutes an order o ∈ O
Parameters :
C s Current capacity of each picking station s ∈ S
Decision variables :
(cid:2)
x ps (cid:2)
1 , pod p ∈ P is
0
a
,
s sig
el
n
s
e
e
d to station s ∈ S
y os
1 , order o ∈ O is
0 ,
a ss
e
ig
ls
n
e
e d to station s ∈ S
y ios (cid:2)
1 , SKU i ∈ I o of order o ∈ O is assigned to station s ∈ S
0 , else
u s Amount of unused capacity for a station s ∈ S
The integrated model is invoked in the simulation each time the
time period t is changed. However, for simplicity the parameter t is
not used in the model. Note that all sets, parameters and decision
variables may change for each time period t .
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
Min x
ps
+ W
u
· u
s
(1)
p∈P s ∈S s ∈S
s.t. y
os
= y
ios
, ∀ i ∈ I
o
, o ∈ O, s ∈ S (2)
(cid:3)
y
os
≤ 1 , ∀ o ∈ O (3)
s ∈S
(cid:3) (cid:3)
y
ios
+ u
s
= C
s
, ∀ s ∈ S (4)
o∈O i ∈I o
(cid:3)
x
ps
≥ y
ios
, ∀ i ∈ I
o
, o ∈ O, s ∈ S (5)
p∈P S KU
i
x
ps
= 1 , ∀ p ∈ P
s
, s ∈ S (6)
y
os
∈ { 0 , 1 } , ∀ o ∈ O, s ∈ S (7)
y
ios
∈ { 0 , 1 } , ∀ i ∈ I
o
, o ∈ O, s ∈ S (8)
x
ps
∈ { 0 , 1 } , ∀ p ∈ P, s ∈ S (9)

[[PAGE 8 RIGHT]]
is
u
s
∈ Z ≥ 0 , ∀ s ∈ S (10)
of
In the integrated model given above, we aim at minimizing the
d,
number of pods used in each period, while keeping the unused
d
capacity of stations as low as possible. Constraint set (2) sets the
he value of y os to 1 for all assigned order/station tuples and ensures
that, if an order is assigned to a station, all order lines in the order
he
are assigned to the same station as this order. And if an order is
cy
not assigned to any station, none of its order lines can be assigned
ry
to a station. Constraint set (3) ensures that each order can be as-
of
signed to at most one station. Constraint set (4) ensures that the
is
number of assigned items equals the amount of available capac-
n- ity minus the amount of unused capacity u s at each station s ∈ S.
Each u s increases the value of the cost function (assuming W u > 0).
Constraint set (5) ensures that for each order line of an order that
is assigned to a station, at least one pod p ∈ P
i
is assigned to the
same station. Constraint set (6) ensures that pods that were as-
signed in previous periods and are currently on their way to a sta-
tion or in a station’s queue stay assigned to that station. Constraint
sets (7) –(9) ensure that the respective variables can only have bi-
nary values while (10) ensures that u s can only have non-negative
integer values.
Proposition 1. The integrated model always has a feasible solution
which we can find in polynomial time.
Proof. See Appendix C . (cid:2)
Proposition 2. The optimal solution of the integrated model is NP-
hard.
Proof. See Appendix C . (cid:2)
3.3. Split-among-stations model
This model is an extension of the integrated model from the
previous section. Now we allow splitting the SKUs in an order be-
tween two or more stations. We need the following additional de-
cision variables.
he Additional decision variables :
(cid:2)
is
n y o
1
0 ,
,
e
o
l
r
s
d
e
e r o ∈ O is assigned
e o the number of additional assigned picking stations for an order o ∈ O
1)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
Min x
ps
+ W
u
· u
s
(1)
p∈P s ∈S s ∈S
2)
s.t. ( 4 ) − ( 10 )
3)
y
(cid:3) os
≥ y
ios
, ∀ i ∈ I
o
, o ∈ O, s ∈ S (2.1)
y
os
≥ y
o
, ∀ o ∈ O (3.1)
(cid:3)s ∈S
4) y
ios
= y
o
, ∀ i ∈ I
o
, o ∈ O (11)
s ∈S
5) y
o
≥ y
os
, ∀ o ∈ O, s ∈ S (12)
(cid:3)
6) y
ios
≥ y
os
, ∀ o ∈ O, s ∈ S (13)
i ∈I o
7)
y
o
∈ { 0 , 1 } , ∀ o ∈ O (14)
8) The cost function (1) and constraints (4) –(10) are carried over
from the previous model. Constraint set (2) is relaxed, so that the
order lines for an order don’t have to be assigned to the same sta-
9)
tion anymore (see constraint set (2.1)), but y os is still set to 1 for all

[[PAGE 9 LEFT]]
Framewo
Start
Agent
Upd
Ini(cid:2)alize Simulato
Op(cid:2)mizer
Op(cid:2)mize
Fig. 5. Overview of the simulation process
stations the order is assigned to. Constraint set (3) is also relaxed, n
to allow for the assignment of an order to more than one station (1
(see constraint set (3.1)). Constraint set (11) now ensures that if b
an order is active (at least one order line is assigned to a station),
P
all of its order lines have to be assigned to stations. Constraint set
so
(12) sets the value of y o to 1 for each order that is assigned to
th
at least to a station. Constraint set (13) ensures that an order can
a
only be assigned to a station if at least one order line of the order
st
is assigned to that station. Constraint set (14) ensures that y o is a
binary variable for each o ∈ O.
P
Proposition 3. Every solution of the integrated model also solves the
P
split-among-stations model. There is always a feasible solution of the
N
split-among-stations model. The split-among-stations model always
provides a solution that is better than, or equally good as, the inte- P
grated model.
Proof. See Appendix C . (cid:2) 4
Proposition 4. The optimal solution of the split-among-stations
model is NP-hard. c
la
Proof. See Remark 1 in Appendix C . (cid:2)
th
so
3.4. Split-over-time model
c
This model is an extension of the split-among-stations model
4
from the previous section. Here we also allow every order to be
split over different time periods. This means some SKUs for an or-
der may be assigned in one period while the others will stay in the
M
backlog to be assigned in later periods. We define one additional
e
binary variable.
o
Additional decision variable :
(cid:2) F
y b
io
1
0 ,
,
e
S
l
K
s
U
e
i ∈ I o , o ∈ O is moved back to the backlog m
in
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
Min x
ps
+ W
u
· u
s
(1)
p∈P s ∈S s ∈S
s.t. ( 2 . 1 ) − ( 3 . 1 ) , ( 4 ) − ( 10 ) , ( 12 ) − ( 20 )
(cid:3)
y
ios
+ y b
io
= y
o
, ∀ i ∈ I
o
, o ∈ O (11.1)
s ∈S
y b
io
∈ { 0 , 1 } , ∀ i ∈ I
o
, o ∈ O (15)
o
All constraints from the previous model are carried over, ex- tr
cept for constraint set (11) . Constraint set (11.1) is relaxed to allow to

[[PAGE 9 RIGHT]]
mework
End
gent
Update
ulator Output results
Visualizer
Render
rocess (see Merschformann et al., 2018 ).
not assigning all order lines of an order at once (see constraint set
(11.1)). The new constraint set (15) ensures that the value of y b is
io
binary.
Proposition 5. Every solution of the split-among-stations model also
solves the split-over-time model. There is always a feasible solution of
the split-over-time model. The split-over-time model always provides
a solution that is better than, or equally good as, the split-among-
stations model.
Proof. See Appendix C . (cid:2)
Proposition 6. The optimal solution of the split-over-time model is
NP-hard.
Proof. See Remark 1 in Appendix C . (cid:2)
4. Computational evaluation
In this section, we describe the parameters and results of the
computational evaluation. We first describe the open-source simu-
lation framework used for this paper in Section 4.1 . Next, we show
the results of the simulation in Section 4.2 . In Section 4.3 , we make
some remarks regarding the assumptions that were made in our
computational evaluation from a practical point of view.
4.1. Simulation framework
In the following evaluation we use RAWSim-O from
Merschformann et al. (2018) , an open-source, agent-based and
event-driven simulation framework providing a detailed view
of an RMFS. The source code is available at www.rawsim-o.de .
Fig. 5 shows an overview of the simulation process, which is
managed by the core simulator instance. The tasks of the simulator
include:
• updating agents , which can resemble real entities, such as
robots and stations
• passing decisions to optimizers , which can either decide imme-
diately or buffer multiple requests and release the decision later
• exposing information to a visualizer , which allows optional vi-
sual feedback in 2D or 3D.
The hierarchy of decision problems regarding the assignment
of replenishment orders, pick orders and pods to station is illus-
trated in Fig. 6 . We develop a new optimizer, called POA & PPS ,
to make integrated decisions for both POA and PPS. Furthermore,

[[PAGE 10 LEFT]]
Reques
Repl. order ROA RSP
received
Pick order POA & PPS
received
Fig. 6. Order of decisions to be made after
we extend the new optimizer to support split orders. And we de-
fine new type of capacity for each station, called item capacity, in
RAWSim-O. If a replenishment order needs to be assigned to a re-
plenishment station, the optimizers of ROA and RPS are responsi-
ble for choosing a replenishment station and a pod. This results in
an insertion request, i.e. a request for a robot to bring the selected
pod to the given workstation. If a picking order needs to be as-
signed to a picking station, the new optimizer POA & PPS submits
all necessary information in the simulator to our model and con-
verts its solution into extraction requests in the simulator. Extrac-
tion requests contain both, the item that needs to be picked and
the pod that it should be picked from. The model is in this case ei-
ther the integrated model in Section 3.2 , the split-among-stations
model in Section 3.3 or the split-over-time model in Section 3.4 .
Our models were implemented in the python API of Gurobi Opti-
mizer. Note that in Merschformann et al. (2018) , first the POA op-
timizer is called and the extraction requests are generated; after
that, the PPS optimizer is called. In other words, pods are only as-
signed to stations after orders have already been assigned. More-
over, in our new optimizer, extraction requests for an order can
be assigned to different stations to support split orders. We define
the item capacity as the sum of the extract requests at one station
for each (part of an) order that has at least one unfulfilled request
at that station. Furthermore, the system generates a store request
each time a pod needs to be transported back from a station to a
storage location, and the PR optimizer decides on the storage loca-
tion for that pod. The TA optimizer assigns robots to these tasks.
All tasks result in robot trips, which are planned by a PP optimizer.
The simulation framework conceptually consists of three differ-
ent inputs:
• instance configuration: contains orders, initial inventory and
available SKUs (see Section 4.1.1 )
• layout configuration: determines the characteristics and dimen-
sions of the warehouse layout (see Section 4.1.2 )
• optimizer configuration: specifies the decision rules for all op-
erational problems in an RMFS (see Section 4.1.3 ).
We describe these three inputs for our experiments in this pa-
per in the following sections.
4.1.1. Instance generation
First, we describe how we generate SKUs and orders, and how
to fill the pods. The set of SKUs is generated as I = { i
1
, ..., i
| I |
}. For
each order o
1
, ..., o
| O |
the number of different SKUs in it is deter-
mined by a truncated (1 to | I |) geometric distribution with p = 0 . 4
(see Fig. 7 for | I | = 20 ). And the number of items for a SKU is set
to 1. It is typical in online retailing that most of the orders contain
very few line items, such as in Bozer and Aldarondo (2018) and

[[PAGE 10 RIGHT]]
equests:
Trips:
TA PP
PR
tresnI
tcartxE
erotS
e after receiving a pick or replenishment order.
e-
n
e-
i-
n
d
s-
ts
n-
c-
d
i-
ns
4 .
i-
p-
er
s-
e- Fig. 7. Probabilities of order lengths for | I| = 20 .
n
ne
n
st
st
a
a-
s.
r.
r-
d
n-
p-
a-
Fig. 8. Probabilities of SKUs for | I| = 20 .
w Onal, Zhang, and Das (2017) . The SKUs in the order are then cho-
or sen by sampling without replacement from I using the probabil-
r- ity mass function of a geometric distribution with p = 5 / | I | , to ac-
. 4 count for the varying demand for different SKUs. Fig. 8 shows the
et probabilities of SKUs for | I | = 20 .
n A shared storage strategy (as described in Bartholdi & Hackman,
d 2017 ) is applied to fill the pods. To determine the initial inventory

[[PAGE 11 LEFT]]
Fig. 9. Simulation
Table 5
Instance parameters.
Symbol Description Values
| O | Number of orders 50, 150, 250
| I | Number of SKUs 20, 100
| P | Number of pods 50, 100
α SKUs per pod 2, 3
of the pods, lists of all SKUs in randomized order are concatenated
until the combined list includes at least | P | · α elements. Then, for
b
each
α
pod p
1
, ..., p
| P |
, the inventory is determined by cutting off the
P
first items in the list.
m
We generate instances with different parameters from Table 5 .
th
By considering all possible combinations of the parameters, we
ru
generate 24 instances. We test all methods in this paper with the
d
pregenerated instances to see the efficiency of the different algo-
p
rithms. In a real RMFS, the orders would not be known at the
n
start of the simulation but would instead be received during run-
th
time. Our methods are also compatible with this type of order-
th
generation (see Section 4.3 ).
(c
u
4.1.2. Layout
o
The layout is identical for most of the test instances and is il-
v
lustrated in Fig. 9 : 428 pods (blue squares), 504 storage locations
si
in 2 × 4 blocks, 4 picking stations (red squares) and 8 robots (gray
a
circles). The length of station queues is 12. As we are focusing on
w
the decisions made in the order picking process, we disregard the
a
replenishment process. When the number of pods is higher than
o
the value of P , only | P | pods have an inventory and the empty
pods are not taken into consideration. The capacity of picking sta-
4
tions is similar to that used in Boysen et al. (2017) . Boysen et al.
(2017) used an order capacity of 6 orders. Since we use item ca-
pacity instead of order capacity, we multiply 6 by 2.5, the mean of
ti
the distribution used to determine the number of items per order
e
(described in Section 4.1.1 ), which leads to an item capacity of 15.
X
m
4.1.3. Decision rules
Table 6 lists the decision rules for all operational problems in
the evaluation. The definitions of these can be found in Table 2 .
The POA and PPS decision rules selected for the sequential ap-
proach are based on Merschformann et al. (2019) , since these com-

[[PAGE 11 RIGHT]]
ulation layout.
Table 6
Decision rules.
Decision Problem Sequential Integrated (without/with split orders)
POA Pod-Match Model
PPS Demand Model
ROA not relevant not relevant
RPS not relevant not relevant
PR Nearest Nearest
PP WHCA ∗
n
WHCA ∗
n
binations achieved the best throughput. The rule Pod-Match for the
POA problem selects the pick order from the backlog that best
matches the pods already assigned to the station. Out of all pods
that could fulfill at least part of an assigned order, the decision
rule Demand for PPS chooses the pod whose inventory is in most
demand when combining all unfulfilled orders. The ROA and RPS
problems are concerned with the replenishment process and thus
not relevant to our tests. The decision rule Nearest for PR assigns
the closest parking space to each pod leaving a picking station. For
the PP problem, non-volatile windowed hierarchical cooperative A ∗
(called WHCA ∗
n
) from Merschformann, Xie, and Erdmann (2017) is
used. In this algorithm, A ∗ is used to find the optimal path with-
out considering collisions for each robot, while a space-time reser-
vation table is used within a limited time window to avoid colli-
sions between robots. Non-volatile means that the existing path
and reservation are stored for each robot within a limited time
window. The model used for POA and PPS to test our integrated
approach is the integrated model described in Section 3 and both
of its extensions for split orders.
4.2. Simulation results
Each combination of method and instance is simulated ten
times to lessen the effect of randomness caused by other optimiz-
ers and simulation components. Testing was done on 12 Intel Xeon
X5650 Cores with 24 Gigabyte RAM. The following performance
metrics are tested:
• the number of pod-station visits per order
• the distance driven by robots per order
• pile-on: the number of picks per pod-station visit
• throughput: picks per hour.

[[PAGE 12 LEFT]]
Fig. 10. Normalized pod-station visits per order.
Fig. 11. Normalized robot distances per order.
The parameter W u is set to 2, since we aim to fully utilize
the picking station’s capacity whenever possible. The highest pos-
sible cost of assigning an additional SKU is 1 (one additional pod
needed, just for this SKU), therefore any value of W u greater than
1 ensures that as many orders as possible are assigned. Further pa-
rameters used in the simulation can be found in Appendix D , such
as parameters for robot movement.
Fig. 10 shows the average number of pod-station visits per or-
der relative to the sequential approach for each instance set of
50, 150 and 250 orders. Compared to the sequential approach for
the number of pod-station visits per order: the integrated model
improves this performance by 20% to 30% for different instance
sets, the split-among-stations model (in short in figures and ta-
bles: split) shows improvements of about 50%, and the split-over-
time model (in short in figures and tables: timesplit) improves on
the sequential solution by 57% to 80% for different instance sets.
Fig. 11 shows similar improvements for the average distances
driven by robots to complete an order for each instance set. The
correlation between pod-station visits and distances driven by
robots confirms our assumption in Section 1 , that distances driven
by robots can be reduced by minimizing the number of pod-station
visits. As the layout shown in Fig. 9 demonstrates, the distance be-
tween the inventory area and a picking station is in most cases
greater than the distance between any two picking stations. Both a
pod coming from the inventory area to a station and a pod com-
ing from another picking station count as pod-station visits. In the

[[PAGE 12 RIGHT]]
Fig. 12. Normalized pile-on (best viewed in color).
ze Fig. 13. Picks per hour (best viewed in color).
s-
d
n
a- sequential approach, pods may have to be transported directly be-
h tween stations, because the orders that share the same pods are
assigned to different stations. Therefore, there are pods moving be-
r- tween picking stations. In the integrated approach, we try to assign
of orders which share the same pods to the same stations; therefore,
or it reduces the number of pods moving between picking stations.
el This explains why the distances per robot in the integrated ap-
ce proach do not show as much of an improvement as pod-station
a- visits per order compared to the sequential approach.
r- Fig. 12 shows the average pile-on of all methods for each in-
n stance set of 50, 150 and 250 orders. Our approach with split or-
ders causes more picks per pod-station visit (PSV), especially in
es the split-over-time model (up to 5.5 times as many picks per PSV)
he (best viewed in color).
by In Fig. 13 we get the average picks per hour for each instance
n set of 50, 150 and 250 orders. From 30% up to 46% more picks per
n hours can be achieved by the split-among-stations and split-over-
e- time.
es Fig. 14 illustrates the total computing times for each instance
a set of 50, 150 and 250 orders. The total computing time for the in-
m- tegrated approaches with and without split orders are much larger
he than those for the sequential approach. We divide the total com-

[[PAGE 13 LEFT]]
Fig. 14. Computing time for the first period
Table 7
Computing time per simulation time for t > 1.
Instance set Sequential Integrated Split Timesplit
50 0.07% 0.17% 0.24% 0.61%
150 0.07% 1.4% 3.46% 6.41%
250 0.07% 3.39% 9.67% 14.67%
Table 8
Computing time t > 1 per order (in seconds).
Instance set Sequential Integrated Split Timesplit
50 0.01 0.03 0.03 0.08
150 0.01 0.21 0.4 0.62
250 0.01 0.48 1.06 1.34 4
T
in
g
puting time into the time at t = 1 and the time of the remaining te
periods t > 1. The period at t = 1 takes a lot of time, since no or- w
ders or pods have previously been assigned to any stations and S
therefore more decisions are necessary than in the following pe- in
riods. As this usually happens at most once a day (when the sys- h
tem is stopped and then restarted), we can consider it a warm- id
up. It is more interesting to see the periods t > 1, since most deci- o
sions are made in those periods. Note that the decisions at t = 1 w
in the split-over-time model are faster than those in the integrated p
and split-among-stations models. The reason is that the split-over- p
time model can easily find the best possible solution in the first m
timestep, where only one pod is needed at each station. Table 7 e
shows the total computing time of the decisions in t > 1 in rela- a
tion to the simulation time. We deem computing times acceptable p
as long as they are lower than the total simulation time. In our 1
tests, computing the decisions took at most around 15% of the sim- o
ulation time (split-over-time, 250-order instance set). The average S
time for the assignment of one order is at most 1.5 seconds (see
Table 8 ). 1

[[PAGE 13 RIGHT]]
period and others (best viewed in color).
Fig. 15. Example of the heuristic method.
4.2.1. A Heuristic method for a real-world instance
The Canadian logistics company Think logistics (see
ThinkLogistics, 2012 ) owns an RMFS, which stores 20 0 0 SKUs
in 217 pods. And there are 15 robots used in the system. We
generated an instance of 20 0 0 orders and 25 SKUs per pod, and
tested it in the similar layout as in Fig. 9 (15 instead of 8 robots
were used). SKUs and orders were generated as described in
Section 4.1.1 . The computational time of our integrated models
increased extremly for such instance. Therefore, we developed a
heuristic method to accelerate the computational time. The main
idea is instead of considering all orders in the backlog as input for
our models, we select only part of them ( n ≤ |O| ) in the following
way: First, all orders in the backlog are sorted according to the
percentage of orders lines in each respective order for which a
pod containing the sku currently is in a stations queue (in short:
match). Then the best n orders are selected. Fig. 15 shows an
example to explain this heuristic method. We have two orders 1
and 2 in the backlog and we want to pick up n = 1 order. And
pod 1 visits currently station 1. We have one open tote in station
1 and the match of order 1 to pod 1 is 100%, since all items of
order 1 are stored in pod 1. The match of order 2 to pod 1 is 50%.
So order 1 should be firstly picked from the backlog.
We test this method for different n in all instance sets (50-,
150-, 250-order) and model variants to analyze the effect n has on

[[PAGE 14 LEFT]]
Fig. 16. Computational time vs. the number of pick-station visits for the 250-order
computing time and the quality of the solution (number of pick-
station visits). The results of different n between 10 and 250 for
250-order instances in the split-among-stations model are illus-
trated in Fig. 16 . The results of other instance sets show a simi-
lar distribution for the integrated approaches. By using the heuris-
tic method, we can save more than 55% in computing time while
pod-station visits rise by 1% compared to the optimal results of
the split-among-stations model (see order count 50 in Fig. 16 and
order count 250 is the optimal solution).
For testing the large instance, we chose n = 40 and solved
with split-over-time method, since this method brings the best
performance, but it reqires more computational time. Compared to
the sequential solution, we can reduce the number of pod-station
visits by 60%, same is the reduced distances drived by robots. 47%
more picks per hours can be achieved, while the average compu-
tational time of each order is 4.6 seconds, which is acceptable. We
simulated this instance ten times and the testing was done on Intel
Xeon E5-2670 16 Cores with 24 GB RAM.
4.3. Practical remarks
Some assumptions in Section 3.1 might differ from real-world
scenarios. In this section we discuss them from a practical point of
view.
• Real-world orders: in this paper we use pregenerated instances
to test the performance of different approaches. Instead, in a
real RMFS, new orders would constantly come in while the op-
timization algorithms are running. Even completely new SKUs
could be stocked during the optimization. To account for this,
our simulation RAWSim-O was recently extended by an inter-
face to an ERP system to allow for its use as a robot control
system in real warehouses, as described in Xie, Li, and Thieme
(2019) . This new feature of the simulator could also be used in
conjunction with the content presented in this paper, to imple-
ment the model presented here in a real warehouse and use
real instances instead of pregenerated testing instances.
• Considering orders with deadlines: in this paper we don’t gen-
erate orders with deadlines. The reason for that is we want to
see maximum effects of our methods. However, our heuristic
can be easily extended to select the orders with tight deadlines
first.

[[PAGE 14 RIGHT]]
-order instance set by prefiltering n orders ( n is from 10 to 250) (best viewed in color).
k- • Reduced size of queues: We set the size of the queue at each
or picking station to be 12 (see Section 4.1.2 ). Based on our ob-
s- servation in the simulation, the queue is rarely full; one of the
i- main reasons for this is that we minimize the number of pod-
s- station visits. And allowing split orders reduces the number
le of pod-station visits by up to 80%. In general, fewer pods are
of brought to queues. So, allowing split orders might cause the
d additional positive side-effect that the required space at pick-
ing stations is reduced.
d • Capacity of packing stations: for the results shown above, we
st assumed the capacity of packing stations for split orders to be
to large enough to store all possible split orders. As this capacity
n might differ from one company to another, a situation where
% not enough capacity is available to allow for the splitting of all
u- orders is conceivable. In order to consider this situation, we can
We extend, for example, the models in Sections 3.3 and 3.4 with
el the following parameters, variables and constraints. We need
two additional parameters: C for the total capacity of packing
stations (in other words: number of available split orders) and
N for the number of stations. The binary variable y l
o
is activated
if order o ∈ O is split, while n l counts the number of currently
active split orders from the previous periods. Note that, this
d
number is decreased by one if one split order is picked com-
of
pletely.
(cid:3)
y
os
− e
o
= y
o
, ∀ o ∈ O (3.2)
es
s ∈S
p
a
-
y l
o
≥ e
o
/N, ∀ o ∈ O (16)
Us
s
r-
, y l
o
≤ e
o
, ∀ o ∈ O (17)
ol
m
n
e
n l + y l
o
≤ C (18)
e-
se y l
o
∈ { 0 , 1 } , ∀ o ∈ O (19)
n-
t
i
o
c
e
o
∈ Z ≥ 0 , ∀ o ∈ O (20)
es In constraint set (3.2), e o is counted as the number of addi-
tional stations to finish picking order o . Constraint sets (16) and

[[PAGE 15 LEFT]]
fi
m
e
is
ti
st
sa
ti
si
In
b
th
ti
d
th
o
a
ta
Fig. 17. An example of using separators in totes (LocusBot). p
e
ro
ti
(17) make sure that y l o is equal to one if e o ≥ 0, while constraint
set (18) makes sure that the number of split orders is less than o
C . Constraint set (19) defines y l o as binary variables for each or- to
der o ∈ O, while constraint set (20) ensures that e o can only th
have non-negative integer values. th
To see the impact that a limited capacity of packing stations e
has on the solution, we tested the 250-order instance set for h
a packing station capacity of 10. When applying this limited ti
capacity to the split-among-stations model, pod-station visits a
were reduced by 35% compared to the sequential approach, in- h
stead of nearly 50% when packing capacity is not limited. Sim-
ilar effect can be achieved by the split-over-time model. But ic
the split-over-time model needs higher packing capacity, since o
some incomplete orders stay longer in packing stations. Note p
that the capacity limit of 10 is an extreme case and the solu-
tion is still better than that of the sequential approach. In the c
real world, higher capacities are possible. ti
• Item capacity: this capacity is used for comparing the sequen- 2
tial and integrated approaches. The capacity of a picking station st
in the real world is limited by the number of totes, which de- th
pends on the size of a tote. There are the following possibilities
to apply our approaches without changing the layout of picking
A
stations:
• using different sizes of totes, with smaller ones for split or-
ders
th
• using separators in totes for split orders (an example: Lo-
K
cusBot in Fig. 17 ).
fi
• Reliability of the simulation: as described in Xie et al. (2019) ,
(P
the simulation framework RAWSim-O was extended to connect
C
to an ERP system and industry robots. So the optimizers in the
C
simulation, including the newly developed ones in this paper,
m
can be applied directly in real-world scenarios.
5. Conclusions A
In an RMFS, the decision on the assignment of orders to sta-
tions (POA) affects the throughput of the whole system the most w
(see Merschformann et al., 2019 ). Moreover, the decision on the as- F
signment of pods to stations (PPS) should be made together with a
POA to get better results (see Example 1 in Section 2.2 ). Therefore, p
we developed novel methods to solve both POA and PPS for multi- lo
ple stations and make online decisions that minimize the number th
of visits by pods to stations (in short: pod-station visits) to ful- p

[[PAGE 15 RIGHT]]
fill all customer orders. First, we introduced a new mathematical
model to integrate POA and PPS (in short: integrated). Second, we
extended the integrated model to allow for split orders. An order
is split when not all of its parts are assigned together to a sta-
tion. Two variations of split orders are considered: split-among-
stations (all order lines of a pick order have to be assigned in the
same time period, but may be assigned to different picking sta-
tions) and split-over-time (order lines of a pick order may be as-
signed in different time periods and to different picking stations).
In the instances we tested, the number of pod-station visits could
be reduced by up to 30% using the integrated model, 50% using
the split-among-stations model and up to 80% using the split-over-
time model compared to the state-of-the-art sequential approach
described in Merschformann et al. (2019) .
Additionally, we analyzed the simulation results with regard to
three additional performance metrics, namely robot distances, pile-
on and picks per hour (throughput). According to our experiments,
a reduction in pod-station visits induces a reduction in robot dis-
tances and by definition it comes with higher pile-on. The picks
per hour can be increased, due to the shorter waiting time of pick-
ers, caused by more efficient order assignments which require the
robots to drive less distance and therefore better supply the sta-
tions with pods to pick from.
The running times for our test instances with 50, 150 and 250
orders were acceptable; however, we needed a heuristic method
to test a real-world instance with 20 0 0 orders. For instances of
that size, it is not practicable to consider all unfulfilled orders in
the models at each period; moreover, not all orders are suitable in
each period. Therefore, we selected 40 best orders according to our
heuristic in each period to submit to the model. Still, a 60% reduc-
tion in pod-station visits and distances driven by robots could be
achieved using the split-over-time model, and 47% more picks per
hours can be achieved with acceptable running times.
We additionally discussed some assumptions for the mathemat-
ical models from a practical point of view, such as the extension
of the split-among-stations model to support limited capacity of
packing stations.
Since an RMFS is a new type of warehousing system, the con-
cepts specific to RMFSs have not received much scholarly atten-
tion. For example, the implementation of priority zones (see Flipse,
2011 ). These zones are located in the proximity of workstations to
store pods which might be used in the near future. Determining
the optimal size of priority zones would also be interesting.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank two anonymous referees for
their insightful comments and suggestions. Nils Thieme and Ruslan
Krenzler are funded by the industrial project “Robotic Mobile Ful-
fillment System”, which is financially supported by Ecopti GmbH
(Paderborn, Germany) and Beijing Hanning Tech Co., Ltd. (Beijing,
China). We would like to thank the Paderborn Center for Parallel
Computing for providing their clusters for our numerical experi-
ments.
Appendix A. Example of the split-over-time approach
We have in this example one open position for station 1,
while we have two identical orders 1 and 2 in the backlog (in
Fig. A.18 (a)). These two orders contain SKUs shown in blue and or-
ange. These two SKUs are located in two different pods, namely
pod 1 with the orange SKU and pod 2 with the blue SKU. By al-
lowing the orders 1 and 2 to be split into blue and orange parts,
the orange ones can firstly be picked from pod 1 at station 1 in
period 1, while one position is open at station 2 (see Fig. A.18 (b)).

[[PAGE 16 LEFT]]
Fig. A1. An example of the
Fig. B1. Positions of the boxes in size S (left) and M (right) within a tier of a shelf.
After that, the blue ones are picked from pod 2 at station 2 in pe-
riod 2 (see Fig. A.18 (c)). This allows both orders to be fulfilled with
two visits of pods to the stations.
Appendix B. Calculation example for the capacity of a packing
station
As mentioned before, the capacity of a packing station de-
pends on the number of parking shelves and their sizes. Ac-
cording to Wulfraat (2012) , the typical size of a shelf is
99cm × 99cm × 244cm. And we have two common sizes of
boxes, namely 25cm × 17.5cm × 10cm and 37.5cm × 30cm × 13.5cm
(see DHL Packsets in sizes S and M in https://www.dhl.de/
en/privatkunden/pakete-versenden/verpacken.html ). As shown in
Fig. B.19 (a) and B.19 (b), we can store 12 and 6 boxes within a tier
of a shelf for the boxes in sizes S and M respectively. Then we as-
sume we store boxes in size S in half of the shelves, and boxes
in size M in the other half. By considering spaces for open boxes
and usable vertical spaces of a shelf, we assume 100centimetres of
vertical space is available for five tiers of boxes with sizes S, while
another 100centimetres is available for three tiers of boxes with
size M. Based on these assumptions, we get to store 78 boxes in
total on a shelf. In other words, we can store 78 split orders on a
shelf.
Appendix C. Omitted Proofs
In this section we prove that the models in Section 3 always
have feasible solutions.

[[PAGE 16 RIGHT]]
of the split-over-time approach.
Proof of Proposition 1. By the assumption about Maximal order
size in Section 3.1 , there exists an order o
(cid:8)
such that o
(cid:8)
has no more
items than capcity C
s
(cid:8) at some station s (cid:8) ∈ S. Let us select this or-
der and the corresponding pods for our solution.
Formally this means: Set x ps := 1 for all p ∈ P s as required by
(6) . Set y o (cid:8) := 1 and y o := 0 otherwise. Set y o (cid:8) s (cid:8) := 1 and set y os := 0
o
o
t
t
h
h
e
e
r
r
w
w
i
i
s
s
e
e
.
.
T
T
h
h
e
e
n
n
(
(
3
2
)
)
h
h
o
o
ld
ld
s
s
.
.
S
B
et
y
y
t
i
h
o (cid:8)
e
s (cid:8) :
c
=
ho
1
i c
f
e
o r
o f
a ll
o
(cid:8) i ∈
an
I
d
o (cid:8)
s
a (cid:8) n
c
d
o n
y i
s
o
t
s
r
:
a
=
in
0
t
(4) holds too. Finally, we set x
ps
(cid:8) := 1 for all p ∈ P
i
S KU with i ∈ I
o
(cid:8) ,
then (5) is fulfilled. Thus we have constructed a feasible solution.
To find order o
(cid:8)
and to set to set correspoding variables, we only
need polynomial time. (cid:2)
Proof of Proposition 2. The main idea of the proof is that we can
lf. select parameters for the integrated model with available stations
set S := { 1 , . . . , k } from Section 3.2 in such a way that Eqs. (1) –(10)
e
h
-
s
A
o l
:
v
=
e
A
a
1 ,
g
.
i v
.
e
. ,
n
A
s
n
e
,
t
t h
co
e
v e
u
r
n
i
i
n
v
g
e r
p
s
r
e
o b
U
l e
:
m
=
.(cid:4) T
n i
h
=
a
1
t
A
m
i ,
e
a
a
n
n
d
s ,
a
g i
s
v
e
e
t
n
B
a
⊂
s
U
et
.
o
F
f
in
s
d
e t
a
s
m
co
i
v
n
e
i
r
m
t
a
h
l
e
in
se
d
t
e x
B ,
s
o
e
r
t
fo
J
r
⊂
m
{
a
1
ll
,
y
.
,
.
B
. ,
⊂
n } (cid:4) s
n j
u
∈
c
J
h
A i .
t hat corresponding sets A i
We define an order o
1
which has the same elements as the set
B 1 := B . We assume that the capacities of all the stations C s , s ∈ S
are equal the size of the order o
1
. Furthermore, we create disjoint
e-
orders o
2
, . . . , o
k
and define correspondsing disjoint sets B
2
, . . . , B
k
,
which do not share any elements from the universe U . All the or-
c-
is ders form the set of current orders in the backlog O := { o s | s ∈ S} .
of
For every order o
i
, i ∈ { 2 , . . . , k } we also define additional set
m A n + i −1 := B i +1 . We define a set of pods P = { 1 , . . . , n, n + 1 . . . , n +
e/ k } such that every pod p in P has the same elements as set A p .
Now we force the integrated model to assign all the orders
n
er o 1 , . . . , o k . In order to do it, we set the weight W u := | B | + 1 . Be-
s- cause every order o ∈ O needs maximaly | o s | = | B | pods, it is
cheaper to use as many available capacities as possible. Because
es
we have k orders, k stations, and the size of every order is the
es
same as avaialble capacity of any station, the optimal solution will
of
assign all the orders and no capacity will be left. That means, for
le
h every optimal solution, the unused capacity is u s = 0 for all s ∈ S.
n Therefore x ps in (1) also solves
a (cid:3) (cid:3)
Min x
ps
. (C. 1)
p∈P s ∈S
Let x
(cid:8)
p s
be an optimal solution of the integrated problem. Be-
ys cause this solution minimizes ( C. 1 ), it describes a minimal set of
pods to fulfill all the orders o
1
, . . . , o
k
. Formally, we define an index

[[PAGE 17 LEFT]]
set R
(cid:5) (cid:6)
J ∗ := p ∈ P : ∃ s ∈ S : x (cid:8)
p s
= 1 (C. 2)
A
then the index set J ∗ is a mininal set with
(cid:7)k (cid:7) A
B
s
⊂ A
p
. (C. 3)
s =1 p∈ J∗ B
Recall, B 2 , . . . , B k are the same as A n +1 , . . . , A n + k −1 with no ele- B
ments from universe U . Thus, J := J ∗ \ { n + 1 , . . . , n + k − 1 } solves
B
our initial set covering problem
(cid:7) (cid:7)
B = B
1
⊂ A
p
= A
p
. (C. 4)
B
p∈ J ∗\{ n +1 , ..., n + k −1 } p∈ J
B
(cid:2)
Remark 1. The proof of Proposition 2 also proves that the split- C
among-stations model is NP-hard if x
t
(cid:8)
p
is the optimal solution for
(1) , subject to constraints (2.1), (3.1), (4) - (10) , and (11) - (14) . This is
because, after we found an optimal solution x (cid:8)
p s
, we do not require C
every order o ∈ O to be assigned to only one station to construct a D
minimal index set J .
The proof of Proposition 2 also proves that the split-over-time D
model is NP-hard, when we use the optimal solution of the split-
over-time model for x t
(cid:8)
p . The constant W u forces any optimal so- Fl
lution of the split-over-the time problem to use all available ca-
pacities. Because we have capacity for all orders in the backlog, H
no orders will be split in time. Thus, any optimal solution of the
split-over-the time model is simultaniously an optimal solution of H
split-among-stations model, which is NP-hard.
Proof of Proposition 3. We show that every solution of the inte-
g t ( e y r g a (cid:8) o r ) te a o∈ t d e O d m , ( o m y d (cid:8) o o e s d ) l o e a ∈ l l O . s , o F s ∈ r s S o o , m lv a e n ( s d 2 ) t ( h f y e o (cid:8) i o l s s l o ) p o w l ∈ it O s - , a i ( o m 2 ∈I . o 1 o , n ) s . ∈ g S - S s e b t t a e t e i a o (cid:8) o n : s = s o . l 0 L u e ti t f o o ( n r x (cid:8) p a o s l f ) l p t ∈ o h P e ∈ , s ∈ i I n S o - , , K Il
then from (3) follows (3.1), (12) and (20) . Substitute (2) into (3) ,
La
t
i
h
∈
e
I
n
o
(
w
11
e
)
g
fo
e
l
t
l o(cid:8)w
i
s
o
.
∈ I
If
o y
w
(cid:8) io
e
s =
su (cid:8)m
i o
(
∈
3
I
)
o
o
y
n
(cid:8) o s
b
≥
o
y
th
(cid:8) o s
s
a
id
n
e
d
s
t
o
h
f
e r
t
e
h
f
e
o r
e
e
q u
(1
a
3
ti
)
o
h
n
o
o
ld
v
s
e
.
r
From the first part of this proof and Proposition 1 , it follows La
that there is a feasible solution for the split-among-stations model.
M
Finally, we have the same objective function (1) . Because the
split-among-station problem is an optimization problem, its opti-
M
mal solution is either
(x (cid:8) p s ) p∈P,s ∈S , (y (cid:8) o ) o∈O , (y (cid:8) o s ) o∈O,s ∈S , (y (cid:8) io s ) o∈O,i o ∈I o ,s ∈S or better. (cid:2) M
Proof of Proposition 5. The proof is analogous to the proof M
o m (y f o (cid:8) io d s P ) e r o l ∈ o . O p S , o i e o s ∈ t i I t o i a o ,s l n ∈ l S y , (cid:8) 3 b ( . e : (cid:8) o = ) L o e 0 ∈ t , O , t ( h b x e e (cid:8) p n s a ) p ( s ∈ 1 o P 1 l . , 1 u s ∈ ) t S io , h n o l ( o d y f s (cid:8) o . t ) h o F ∈ e u O r s , t p h li e ( t y r - m (cid:8) o a s m ) o o r o ∈ e n O , g ,s w - ∈ s S e t , a t h i a o a n v n d e s O
i o O
the same objective function (1). With the same argumentation as
in the proof of Proposition 3 , we conclude all the statements of
Proposition 5 . (cid:2)
R
Appendix D. Additional parameters in the simulation
Th
Table D.9
Parameters of robot movement and time for picking units. To
Parameter Value
T
R
R
i
o
o
m
b
b
o
o
e
t
t
n
m
a
e
c
e
a
c
d
x
e
e
i
l
m
e
d
r
u
a
fo
t
m
i
r
o n
a
v
/
e
d
f
l
u
o
e
l
c
c
l
i
e
t
t
l
y
u
e
r
r
n
at i
o
o
f
n
a robot
1
1
2
.
.
s
m
5
5
2
s
m
s
T
V
o
Time needed for lifting and storing a pod 2.2 s
Time needed for picking a unit 7 s
W
Time needed for handling a unit at picking station 13 s
W

[[PAGE 17 RIGHT]]
References
Armstrong, R. D. , Cook, W. D. , & Saipe, A. L. (1979). Optimal batching in a semi-au-
tomated order picking system. Journal of the Operational Research Society, 30 (8),
711–720 .
Azadeh, K., de Koster, M., & Roy, D. (2017). Robotized warehouse systems: Develop-
ments and research opportunities. Research paper (no. ERS-2017-009-LIS), ERIM
Report Series Research in Management.
Banker, S. (2016). Robots in the warehouse: It’s not just Amazon. http://www.forbes.
com .
Bartholdi, J. , & Hackman, S. (2017). Warehouse & distribution science: release 0.98 .
Supply Chain and Logistics Institute .
Boysen, N. , Briskorn, D. , & Emde, S. (2017). Parts-to-picker based order processing
in a rack-moving mobile robots environment. European Journal of Operational
Research, 262 (2), 550–562 .
Boysen, N. , de Koster, R. , & Weidinger, F. (2018). Warehousing in the e-commerce
era: A survey. European Journal of Operational Research .
Bozer, Y. A., & Aldarondo, F. J. (2018). A simulation-based comparison of two goods-
to-person order picking systems in an online retail setting. International Journal
of Production Research, 56 (11), 3838–3858. doi: 10.1080/00207543.2018.1424364 .
Cohen, L. , Uras, T. , & Koenig, S. (2015). Feasibility study: Using highways for bound-
ed-suboptimal multi-agent path finding. In Proceedings of the eighth annual sym-
posium on combinatorial search .
Cohen, L., Wagner, G., Kumar, T. K. S., Choset, H., & Koenig, S. (2017). Rapid random-
ized restarts for multi-agent path finding solvers. arXiv preprint: 1706.02794
De Koster, R. , Le-Duc, T. , & Roodbergen, K. J. (2007). Design and control of ware-
house order picking: A literature review. European Journal of Operational Re-
search, 182 (2), 481–501 .
De Koster, R. B. , Le-Duc, T. , & Zaerpour, N. (2012). Determining the number of zones
in a pick-and-sort order picking system. International Journal of Production Re-
search, 50 (3), 757–771 .
Flipse, M. (2011). Altering and improving Kiva. Working Paper, Vrije Universiteit Am-
sterdam.
Hanson, R. , Medbo, L. , & Johansson, M. I. (2018). Performance characteristics of
robotic mobile fulfilment systems in order picking applications. IFAC-PapersOn-
Line, 51 (11), 1493–1498 .
Hoffman, A. E., Mountz, M. C., Barbehenn, M. T., Allard, J. R., Kimmel, M. E., San-
tini, F., Decker, M. H., D’Andrea, R., & Wurman, P. R. (2013). System and method
for inventory management using mobile drive units. https://www.google.com/
patents/US20130103552 .
Il-Choe, K., & Sharp, G. (1991). Small parts order picking: Design and oper-
ation. https://www2.isye.gatech.edu/ ∼mgoetsch/cali/Logistics%20Tutorial/order/
article.htm .
Krenzler, R., Xie, L., & Li, H. (2018). Deterministic Pod Repositioning Problem in
Robotic Mobile Fulfillment Systems. ArXiv e-prints,.
Lamballais, T. , Roy, D. , & De Koster, M. (2017). Estimating performance in a robotic
mobile fulfillment system. European Journal of Operational Research, 256 (3),
976–990 .
Lamballais, T. , Roy, D. , & De Koster, R. B. (2019). Inventory allocation in robotic mo-
bile fulfillment systems. IISE Transactions , 1–17 .
Merschformann, M. (2017). Active repositioning of storage units in robotic mobile
fulfillment systems. In Proceedings of the operations research proceedings 2017
(pp. 379–385). Springer .
Merschformann, M. , Lamballais, T. , de Koster, M. , & Suhl, L. (2019). Decision rules for
robotic mobile fulfillment systems. Operations Research Perspectives, 6 , 100128 .
Merschformann, M., Xie, L., & Erdmann, D. (2017). Multi-Agent Path Finding with
Kinematic Constraints for Robotic Mobile Fulfillment Systems. ArXiv e-prints,.
Merschformann, M. , Xie, L. , & Li, H. (2018). RAWSim-O: A simulation framework for
robotic mobile fulfillment systems. Logistics Research, 11:8 .
Onal, S. , Zhang, J. , & Das, S. (2017). Modelling and performance evaluation of explo-
sive storage policies in internet fulfilment warehouses. International Journal of
Production Research, 55 (20), 5902–5915 .
Otten, S., Krenzler, R., Xie, L., Daduna, H., & Kruse, K. (2019). Lost-customers approx-
imation of semi-open queueing networks with backordering–An application to
minimise the number of robots in robotic mobile fulfilment systems. ArXiv e-
prints,.
Roy, D. , Nigam, S. , de Koster, R. , Adan, I. , & Resing, J. (2019). Robot-storage zone
assignment strategies in mobile fulfillment systems. Transportation Research Part
E: Logistics and Transportation Review, 122 , 119–142 .
ThinkLogistics (2012). Thinking robots – canadian logistics company deploys Kiva
robots in the warehouse. Materials Management & Distribution (Canada’s Sup-
ply Chain Magazine) https://www.thinklogistics.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/
02/MMD-ThinkLogistics.pdf .
Toister, J. (2017). An inside look at Amazon’s fulfillment cen-
ter operations. https://www.toistersolutions.com/blog/2017/4/10/
an- inside- look- at- amazons- fulfillment- center- operations .
Tompkins, J. A. (2010). Facilities planning (4th). Hoboken, NJ and Chichester: John
Wiley & Sons .
Van Gils, T. , Ramaekers, K. , Caris, A. , & de Koster, R. B. (2018). Designing efficient
order picking systems by combining planning problems: State-of-the-art classi-
fication and review. European Journal of Operational Research, 267 (1), 1–15 .
Weidinger, F. , Boysen, N. , & Briskorn, D. (2018). Storage assignment with rack-mov-
ing mobile robots in kiva warehouses. Transportation Science, 52 (6), 1479–1495 .
Wulfraat, M. (2012). Is Kiva Systems a good fit for your distribution center? An
unbiased distribution consultant evaluation. http://www.mwpvl.com/html/kiva _
systems.html .

[[PAGE 18 LEFT]]
Wurman, P. R., D’Andrea, R., & Mountz, M. (2008). Coordinating hundreds of cooper-
ative, autonomous vehicles in warehouses. AI Magazine, 29 . doi: 10.1609/aimag.
v29i1.2082 .
Xie, L. , Li, H. , & Thieme, N. (2019). From simulation to real-world robotic mobile
fulfillment systems. Logistics Research, 12:9 .
Yuan, R., Dong, T., & Li, J. (2016). Research on the collision-free path planning of
multi-agvs system based on improved a ∗ algorithm. American Journal of Opera-
tions Research, 06 (06), 4 42–4 49. doi: 10.4236/ajor.2016.66041 .
Yuan, Z., & Gong, Y. Y. (2017). Bot-in-time delivery for robotic mobile fulfillment sys-
tems. IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 64 (1), 83–93. doi: 10.1109/
TEM.2016.2634540 .

[[PAGE 18 RIGHT]]
r- Zhang, J. , Yang, F. , & Weng, X. (2019). A building-block-based genetic algorithm for
g. solving the robots allocation problem in a robotic mobile fulfilment system.
Mathematical Problems in Engineering, 2019 .
le Zou, B. , Xu, X. , De Koster, R. , et al. (2018). Evaluating battery charging and swapping
strategies in a robotic mobile fulfillment system. European Journal of Operational
of Research, 267 (2), 733–753 .
a-
s-
9/